NAGOYA PROTOCOL 
ON 
ACCESS TO GENETIC RESOURCES 
AND THE FAIR AND EQUITABLE 
SHARING OF BENEFITS ARISING 
FROM THEIR UTILIZATION 
TO THE 
CONVENTION ON 
BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
TExT AND ANNEx


NAGOYA PROTOCOL 
ON 
ACCESS TO GENETIC RESOURCES 
AND THE FAIR AND EQUITABLE 
SHARING OF BENEFITS ARISING 
FROM THEIR UTILIZATION 
TO THE 
CONVENTION ON 
BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
Text And Annex
Secretariat of the Convention  
on Biological Diversity
Montreal
Convention on Biological Diversity
United Nations


1
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefi t-sharing
Introduction
Th e Convention on Biological Diversity was opened for signature on 5 June 1992 
at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (the Rio 
“Earth Summit”) and entered into force on 29 December 1993.  Th e Convention is 
the only international instrument comprehensively addressing biological diversity.  
Th e Convention’s three objectives are the conservation of biological diversity, the 
sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of benefi ts 
arising from the utilisation of genetic resources.
To further advance the implementation of the third objective, the World Summit on 
Sustainable Development (Johannesburg, September 2002) called for the negotiation 
of an international regime, within the framework of the Convention, to promote 
and safeguard the fair and equitable sharing of benefi ts arising from the utilisation 
of genetic resources.  Th e Convention’s Conference of the Parties responded at its 
seventh meeting, in 2004, by mandating its Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group 
on Access and Benefi t-sharing to elaborate and negotiate an international regime 
on access to genetic resources and benefi t-sharing in order to eff ectively implement 
Articles 15 (Access to Genetic Resources) and 8(j) (Traditional Knowledge) of the 
Convention and its three objectives.  
Aft er six years of negotiation, the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources 
and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefi ts Arising from their Utilization to 
the Convention on Biological Diversity was adopted at the tenth meeting of the 
Conference of the Parties on 29 October 2010, in Nagoya, Japan. 
Th e Protocol signifi cantly advances the Convention’s third objective by providing 
a strong basis for greater legal certainty and transparency for both providers 
and users of genetic resources.  Specifi c obligations to support compliance with 
domestic legislation or regulatory requirements of the Party providing genetic 
resources and contractual obligations refl ected in mutually agreed terms are a 
signifi cant innovation of the Protocol.  Th ese compliance provisions as well as 
provisions establishing more predictable conditions for access to genetic resources 
will contribute to ensuring the sharing of benefi ts when genetic resources leave a 
Party providing genetic resources.  In addition, the Protocol’s provisions on access 
to traditional knowledge held by indigenous and local communities when it is 
associated with genetic resources will strengthen the ability of these communities to 
benefi t from the use of their knowledge, innovations and practices. 
By promoting the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, 
and by strengthening the opportunities for fair and equitable sharing of benefi ts 
from their use, the Protocol will create incentives to conserve biological diversity, 
sustainably use its components, and further enhance the contribution of biological 
diversity to sustainable development and human well-being.
Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity
United Nations Environmental Programme
413 St. Jacques Street West, Suite 800
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H2Y 1N9
Phone: +1 (514) 288 2220
Fax: +1 (514) 288 6588
E-mail: secretariat@cbd.int
Website: www.cbd.int
© 2011 by the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity
All rights reserved. Published 2011
Printed in Canada
ISBN: 92-9225-306-9
Th is publication may be reproduced for educational or non-profi t purposes without special 
permission from the copyright holders, provided acknowledgement of the source is made.
Th e Secretariat of the Convention would appreciate receiving a copy of the publications that use this 
document as a source.
Local catalogue record:
Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefi ts 
Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity : text and annex / Secretariat
of the Convention on Biological Diversity.
Summary: “Th is booklet contains the text and annex of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic 
Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefi ts Arising from their Utilization to the 
Convention on Biological Diversity.”—Provided by publisher.
ISBN 92-9225-306-9
1. Biodiversity conservation — Law and legislation  2. Genetic resources conservation—Law and
legislation  3. Biodiversity – International cooperation  4. Biodiversity conservation
I. Convention on Biological Diversity (1992).  Protocols, etc., 2010 Oct. 29.    II. Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (2010 : Nagoya, Japan).    III. United Nations.
K3488 .A48 2011
For further information please contact the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity


2
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
3
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
Determined to further support the effective implementation of the access and 
benefit-sharing provisions of the Convention,
Recognizing that an innovative solution is required to address the fair and equitable 
sharing of benefits derived from the utilization of genetic resources and traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources that occur in transboundary situations 
or for which it is not possible to grant or obtain prior informed consent, 
Recognizing the importance of genetic resources to food security, public health, 
biodiversity conservation, and the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change, 
Recognizing the special nature of agricultural biodiversity, its distinctive features and 
problems needing distinctive solutions,
Recognizing the interdependence of all countries with regard to genetic resources 
for food and agriculture as well as their special nature and importance for 
achieving food security worldwide and for sustainable development of agriculture 
in the context of poverty alleviation and climate change and acknowledging the 
fundamental role of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food 
and Agriculture and the FAO Commission on Genetic Resources for Food and 
Agriculture in this regard,
Mindful of the International Health Regulations (2005) of the World Health 
Organization and the importance of ensuring access to human pathogens for public 
health preparedness and response purposes, 
Acknowledging ongoing work in other international forums relating to access and 
benefit-sharing,
Recalling the Multilateral System of Access and Benefit-sharing established under the 
International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture developed 
in harmony with the Convention,
Recognizing that international instruments related to access and benefit-sharing 
should be mutually supportive with a view to achieving the objectives of the 
Convention,
Recalling the relevance of Article 8(j) of the Convention as it relates to traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of 
benefits arising from the utilization of such knowledge, 
Noting the interrelationship between genetic resources and traditional knowledge, 
their inseparable nature for indigenous and local communities, the importance 
of the traditional knowledge for the conservation of biological diversity and the 
sustainable use of its components, and for the sustainable livelihoods of these 
communities,
Recognizing the diversity of circumstances in which traditional knowledge associated 
with genetic resources is held or owned by indigenous and local communities,
NAGOYA PROTOCOL ON ACCESS TO GENETIC  
RESOURCES AND THE FAIR AND EQUITABLE SHARING OF 
BENEFITS ARISING FROM THEIR UTILIZATION TO THE  
CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
The Parties to this Protocol,
Being Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, hereinafter referred to as 
“the Convention”,
Recalling that the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of 
genetic resources is one of three core objectives of the Convention, and recognizing 
that this Protocol pursues the implementation of this objective within the Convention,
Reaffirming the sovereign rights of States over their natural resources and according 
to the provisions of the Convention, 
Recalling further Article 15 of the Convention, 
Recognizing the important contribution to sustainable development made by 
technology transfer and cooperation to build research and innovation capacities 
for adding value to genetic resources in developing countries, in accordance with 
Articles 16 and 19 of the Convention,
Recognizing that public awareness of the economic value of ecosystems and 
biodiversity and the fair and equitable sharing of this economic value with the 
custodians of biodiversity are key incentives for the conservation of biological 
diversity and the sustainable use of its components,
Acknowledging the potential role of access and benefit-sharing to contribute to the 
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, poverty eradication and 
environmental sustainability and thereby contributing to achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals, 
Acknowledging the linkage between access to genetic resources and the fair and 
equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of such resources, 
Recognizing the importance of providing legal certainty with respect to access to 
genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their 
utilization,
Further recognizing the importance of promoting equity and fairness in negotiation 
of mutually agreed terms between providers and users of genetic resources,
Recognizing also the vital role that women play in access and benefit-sharing and 
affirming the need for the full participation of women at all levels of policy-making 
and implementation for biodiversity conservation,


4
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
5
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
(e)	 “Derivative” means a naturally occurring biochemical compound resulting 
from the genetic expression or metabolism of biological or genetic 
resources, even if it does not contain functional units of heredity.
Article
3
SCOPE
This Protocol shall apply to genetic resources within the scope of Article 15 of the 
Convention and to the benefits arising from the utilization of such resources. This 
Protocol shall also apply to traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources 
within the scope of the Convention and to the benefits arising from the utilization of 
such knowledge.
Article
4
RELATIONSHIP WITH INTERNATIONAL  
AGREEMENTS AND INSTRUMENTS
1.	 The provisions of this Protocol shall not affect the rights and obligations of any 
Party deriving from any existing international agreement, except where the exercise 
of those rights and obligations would cause a serious damage or threat to biological 
diversity. This paragraph is not intended to create a hierarchy between this Protocol 
and other international instruments.
2. 	 Nothing in this Protocol shall prevent the Parties from developing and 
implementing other relevant international agreements, including other specialized 
access and benefit-sharing agreements, provided that they are supportive of and do 
not run counter to the objectives of the Convention and this Protocol.
3.	 This Protocol shall be implemented in a mutually supportive manner with other 
international instruments relevant to this Protocol. Due regard should be paid to 
useful and relevant ongoing work or practices under such international instruments 
and relevant international organizations, provided that they are supportive of and do 
not run counter to the objectives of the Convention and this Protocol.
4. 	 This Protocol is the instrument for the implementation of the access and 
benefit-sharing provisions of the Convention. Where a specialized international 
access and benefit-sharing instrument applies that is consistent with, and does not 
run counter to the objectives of the Convention and this Protocol, this Protocol 
does not apply for the Party or Parties to the specialized instrument in respect 
of the specific genetic resource covered by and for the purpose of the specialized 
instrument.
Mindful that it is the right of indigenous and local communities to identify the 
rightful holders of their traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources, 
within their communities,
Further recognizing the unique circumstances where traditional knowledge 
associated with genetic resources is held in countries, which may be oral, 
documented or in other forms, reflecting a rich cultural heritage relevant for 
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity,
Noting the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and
Affirming that nothing in this Protocol shall be construed as diminishing or 
extinguishing the existing rights of indigenous and local communities,
Have agreed as follows: 
Article
1
OBJECTIVE
The objective of this Protocol is the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising 
from the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic 
resources and by appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account 
all rights over those resources and to technologies, and by appropriate funding, 
thereby contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable 
use of its components.
Article
2
USE OF TERMS
The terms defined in Article 2 of the Convention shall apply to this Protocol. In 
addition, for the purposes of this Protocol: 
(a)	 “Conference of the Parties” means the Conference of the Parties to the 
Convention;
(b)	 “Convention” means the Convention on Biological Diversity; 
(c)	 “Utilization of genetic resources” means to conduct research and 
development on the genetic and/or biochemical composition of genetic 
resources, including through the application of biotechnology as defined in 
Article 2 of the Convention;
(d)	 “Biotechnology” as defined in Article 2 of the Convention means any 
technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms, or 
derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use;


6
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
7
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
genetic resources where they have the established right to grant access to such 
resources.
3.	 Pursuant to paragraph 1 above, each Party requiring prior informed consent shall 
take the necessary legislative, administrative or policy measures, as appropriate, to:
(a)	 Provide for legal certainty, clarity and transparency of their domestic access 
and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory requirements;
(b) 	 Provide for fair and non-arbitrary rules and procedures on accessing 
genetic resources;
(c) 	 Provide information on how to apply for prior informed consent;
(d)	 Provide for a clear and transparent written decision by a competent national 
authority, in a cost-effective manner and within a reasonable period of time;
(e) 	 Provide for the issuance at the time of access of a permit or its equivalent 
as evidence of the decision to grant prior informed consent and of the 
establishment of mutually agreed terms, and notify the Access and Benefit-
sharing Clearing-House accordingly;
(f)	 Where applicable, and subject to domestic legislation, set out criteria 
and/or processes for obtaining prior informed consent or approval and 
involvement of indigenous and local communities for access to genetic 
resources; and
(g)	 Establish clear rules and procedures for requiring and establishing  
mutually agreed terms. Such terms shall be set out in writing and may 
include, inter alia: 
(i) 	 A dispute settlement clause; 
(ii)	 Terms on benefit-sharing, including in relation to intellectual property 
rights; 
(iii) 	Terms on subsequent third-party use, if any; and 
(iv) 	Terms on changes of intent, where applicable.
Article
7
ACCESS TO TRADITIONAL KNOWLEDGE ASSOCIATED  
WITH GENETIC RESOURCES
In accordance with domestic law, each Party shall take measures, as appropriate, with 
the aim of ensuring that traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources that 
is held by indigenous and local communities is accessed with the prior and informed 
consent or approval and involvement of these indigenous and local communities, 
and that mutually agreed terms have been established.
Article
5
FAIR AND EQUITABLE BENEFIT-SHARING
1.	 In accordance with Article 15, paragraphs 3 and 7 of the Convention, benefits 
arising from the utilization of genetic resources as well as subsequent applications 
and commercialization shall be shared in a fair and equitable way with the Party 
providing such resources that is the country of origin of such resources or a Party 
that has acquired the genetic resources in accordance with the Convention. Such 
sharing shall be upon mutually agreed terms.
2.	 Each Party shall take legislative, administrative or policy measures, as 
appropriate, with the aim of ensuring that benefits arising from the utilization of 
genetic resources that are held by indigenous and local communities, in accordance 
with domestic legislation regarding the established rights of these indigenous and 
local communities over these genetic resources, are shared in a fair and equitable 
way with the communities concerned, based on mutually agreed terms.
3.	 To implement paragraph 1 above, each Party shall take legislative, administrative 
or policy measures, as appropriate.
4.	 Benefits may include monetary and non-monetary benefits, including but not 
limited to those listed in the Annex. 
5.	 Each Party shall take legislative, administrative or policy measures, as 
appropriate, in order that the benefits arising from the utilization of traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources are shared in a fair and equitable way 
with indigenous and local communities holding such knowledge. Such sharing shall 
be upon mutually agreed terms. 
Article
6
ACCESS TO GENETIC RESOURCES
1.	 In the exercise of sovereign rights over natural resources, and subject to 
domestic access and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory requirements, access 
to genetic resources for their utilization shall be subject to the prior informed 
consent of the Party providing such resources that is the country of origin of such 
resources or a Party that has acquired the genetic resources in accordance with the 
Convention, unless otherwise determined by that Party.
2. 	 In accordance with domestic law, each Party shall take measures, as 
appropriate, with the aim of ensuring that the prior informed consent or approval 
and involvement of indigenous and local communities is obtained for access to 


8
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
9
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
Article
11
TRANSBOUNDARY COOPERATION
1.	 In instances where the same genetic resources are found in situ within the 
territory of more than one Party, those Parties shall endeavour to cooperate, as 
appropriate, with the involvement of indigenous and local communities concerned, 
where applicable, with a view to implementing this Protocol.
2.	 Where the same traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources is 
shared by one or more indigenous and local communities in several Parties, those 
Parties shall endeavour to cooperate, as appropriate, with the involvement of the 
indigenous and local communities concerned, with a view to implementing the 
objective of this Protocol.
Article
12
TRADITIONAL KNOWLEDGE ASSOCIATED WITH  
GENETIC RESOURCES
1.	 In implementing their obligations under this Protocol, Parties shall in 
accordance with domestic law take into consideration indigenous and local 
communities’ customary laws, community protocols and procedures, as applicable, 
with respect to traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources.
2.	 Parties, with the effective participation of the indigenous and local communities 
concerned, shall establish mechanisms to inform potential users of traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources about their obligations, including 
measures as made available through the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House 
for access to and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of 
such knowledge.
3.	 Parties shall endeavour to support, as appropriate, the development by 
indigenous and local communities, including women within these communities, of:
(a)	 Community protocols in relation to access to traditional knowledge 
associated with genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of 
benefits arising out of the utilization of such knowledge;
(b)	 Minimum requirements for mutually agreed terms to secure the fair and 
equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources; and
(c)	 Model contractual clauses for benefit-sharing arising from the utilization of 
traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources.
Article
8
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
In the development and implementation of its access and benefit-sharing legislation 
or regulatory requirements, each Party shall: 
(a)	 Create conditions to promote and encourage research which contributes to 
the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, particularly in 
developing countries, including through simplified measures on access for 
non-commercial research purposes, taking into account the need to address 
a change of intent for such research; 
(b) 	 Pay due regard to cases of present or imminent emergencies that threaten 
or damage human, animal or plant health, as determined nationally or 
internationally. Parties may take into consideration the need for expeditious 
access to genetic resources and expeditious fair and equitable sharing of 
benefits arising out of the use of such genetic resources, including access to 
affordable treatments by those in need, especially in developing countries; 
(c) 	 Consider the importance of genetic resources for food and agriculture and 
their special role for food security. 
Article
9
CONTRIBUTION TO CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE
The Parties shall encourage users and providers to direct benefits arising from the 
utilization of genetic resources towards the conservation of biological diversity and 
the sustainable use of its components. 
Article
10
GLOBAL MULTILATERAL BENEFIT-SHARING MECHANISM
Parties shall consider the need for and modalities of a global multilateral benefit-
sharing mechanism to address the fair and equitable sharing of benefits derived from 
the utilization of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic 
resources that occur in transboundary situations or for which it is not possible to 
grant or obtain prior informed consent. The benefits shared by users of genetic 
resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources through this 
mechanism shall be used to support the conservation of biological diversity and the 
sustainable use of its components globally. 


10
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
11
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
forthwith notify the Secretariat of any changes in the designation of its national 
focal point or in the contact information or responsibilities of its competent national 
authority or authorities.
5.	 The Secretariat shall make information received pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
available through the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House.
Article
14
THE ACCESS AND BENEFIT-SHARING CLEARING-HOUSE  
AND INFORMATION-SHARING
1.	 An Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House is hereby established as part of 
the clearing-house mechanism under Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Convention. 
It shall serve as a means for sharing of information related to access and benefit-
sharing. In particular, it shall provide access to information made available by each 
Party relevant to the implementation of this Protocol.
2.	 Without prejudice to the protection of confidential information, each Party shall 
make available to the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House any information 
required by this Protocol, as well as information required pursuant to the decisions 
taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol. The information shall include: 
(a) 	 Legislative, administrative and policy measures on access and 
benefit-sharing; 
(b) 	 Information on the national focal point and competent national authority 
or authorities; and
(c)	 Permits or their equivalent issued at the time of access as evidence of 
the decision to grant prior informed consent and of the establishment of 
mutually agreed terms.
3.	 Additional information, if available and as appropriate, may include:
(a)	 Relevant competent authorities of indigenous and local communities, and 
information as so decided;
(b)	 Model contractual clauses;
(c)	 Methods and tools developed to monitor genetic resources; and
(d)	 Codes of conduct and best practices.
4. 	 The modalities of the operation of the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-
House, including reports on its activities, shall be considered and decided upon by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol at 
its first meeting, and kept under review thereafter.
4.	 Parties, in their implementation of this Protocol, shall, as far as possible, 
not restrict the customary use and exchange of genetic resources and associated 
traditional knowledge within and amongst indigenous and local communities in 
accordance with the objectives of the Convention.
Article
13
NATIONAL FOCAL POINTS AND COMPETENT  
NATIONAL AUTHORITIES
1.	 Each Party shall designate a national focal point on access and benefit-sharing. 
The national focal point shall make information available as follows: 
(a)	 For applicants seeking access to genetic resources, information on 
procedures for obtaining prior informed consent and establishing mutually 
agreed terms, including benefit-sharing;
(b) 	 For applicants seeking access to traditional knowledge associated with 
genetic resources, where possible, information on procedures for obtaining 
prior informed consent or approval and involvement, as appropriate, of 
indigenous and local communities and establishing mutually agreed terms 
including benefit-sharing; and 
(c) 	 Information on competent national authorities, relevant indigenous and 
local communities and relevant stakeholders. 
The national focal point shall be responsible for liaison with the Secretariat.
2.	 Each Party shall designate one or more competent national authorities on 
access and benefit-sharing. Competent national authorities shall, in accordance with 
applicable national legislative, administrative or policy measures, be responsible for 
granting access or, as applicable, issuing written evidence that access requirements 
have been met and be responsible for advising on applicable procedures and 
requirements for obtaining prior informed consent and entering into mutually 
agreed terms. 
3.	 A Party may designate a single entity to fulfil the functions of both focal point 
and competent national authority.
4.	 Each Party shall, no later than the date of entry into force of this Protocol for 
it, notify the Secretariat of the contact information of its national focal point and 
its competent national authority or authorities. Where a Party designates more 
than one competent national authority, it shall convey to the Secretariat, with its 
notification thereof, relevant information on the respective responsibilities of those 
authorities. Where applicable, such information shall, at a minimum, specify which 
competent authority is responsible for the genetic resources sought. Each Party shall 


12
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
13
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
Article
17
MONITORING THE UTILIZATION OF GENETIC RESOURCES
1.	 To support compliance, each Party shall take measures, as appropriate, to 
monitor and to enhance transparency about the utilization of genetic resources. Such 
measures shall include:
(a) 	 The designation of one or more checkpoints, as follows:
(i)	 Designated checkpoints would collect or receive, as appropriate, 
relevant information related to prior informed consent, to the source 
of the genetic resource, to the establishment of mutually agreed terms, 
and/or to the utilization of genetic resources, as appropriate; 
(ii)	 Each Party shall, as appropriate and depending on the particular 
characteristics of a designated checkpoint, require users of genetic 
resources to provide the information specified in the above paragraph 
at a designated checkpoint. Each Party shall take appropriate, effective 
and proportionate measures to address situations of non-compliance;
(iii)	Such information, including from internationally recognized 
certificates of compliance where they are available, will, without 
prejudice to the protection of confidential information, be provided 
to relevant national authorities, to the Party providing prior informed 
consent and to the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House, as 
appropriate; 
(iv)	Checkpoints must be effective and should have functions relevant to 
implementation of this subparagraph (a). They should be relevant to 
the utilization of genetic resources, or to the collection of relevant 
information at, inter alia, any stage of research, development, 
innovation, pre‑commercialization or commercialization.
(b) 	 Encouraging users and providers of genetic resources to include provisions 
in mutually agreed terms to share information on the implementation of 
such terms, including through reporting requirements; and
(c) 	 Encouraging the use of cost-effective communication tools and systems. 
2.	 A permit or its equivalent issued in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 3 (e) 
and made available to the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House, shall 
constitute an internationally recognized certificate of compliance. 
3.	 An internationally recognized certificate of compliance shall serve as evidence 
that the genetic resource which it covers has been accessed in accordance with prior 
informed consent and that mutually agreed terms have been established, as required 
Article
15
COMPLIANCE WITH DOMESTIC LEGISLATION  
OR REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS ON ACCESS  
AND BENEFIT-SHARING
1.	 Each Party shall take appropriate, effective and proportionate legislative, 
administrative or policy measures to provide that genetic resources utilized 
within its jurisdiction have been accessed in accordance with prior informed 
consent and that mutually agreed terms have been established, as required by the 
domestic access and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory requirements of the 
other Party. 
2.	 Parties shall take appropriate, effective and proportionate measures to address 
situations of non-compliance with measures adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 
above. 
3.	 Parties shall, as far as possible and as appropriate, cooperate in cases of 
alleged violation of domestic access and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory 
requirements referred to in paragraph 1 above. 
Article
16
COMPLIANCE WITH DOMESTIC LEGISLATION OR  
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS ON ACCESS AND BENEFIT-
SHARING FOR TRADITIONAL KNOWLEDGE  
ASSOCIATED WITH GENETIC RESOURCES
1.	 Each Party shall take appropriate, effective and proportionate legislative, 
administrative or policy measures, as appropriate, to provide that traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources utilized within their jurisdiction 
has been accessed in accordance with prior informed consent or approval and 
involvement of indigenous and local communities and that mutually agreed 
terms have been established, as required by domestic access and benefit-sharing 
legislation or regulatory requirements of the other Party where such indigenous and 
local communities are located. 
2.	 Each Party shall take appropriate, effective and proportionate measures to 
address situations of non-compliance with measures adopted in accordance with 
paragraph 1 above.
3.	 Parties shall, as far as possible and as appropriate, cooperate in cases of 
alleged violation of domestic access and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory 
requirements referred to in paragraph 1 above. 


14
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
15
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
Article
19
MODEL CONTRACTUAL CLAUSES
1. 	 Each Party shall encourage, as appropriate, the development, update and use of 
sectoral and cross-sectoral model contractual clauses for mutually agreed terms. 
2.	 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol shall periodically take stock of the use of sectoral and cross-sectoral model 
contractual clauses.
Article
20
CODES OF CONDUCT, GUIDELINES  
AND BEST PRACTICES AND/OR STANDARDS
1.	 Each Party shall encourage, as appropriate, the development, update and use 
of voluntary codes of conduct, guidelines and best practices and/or standards in 
relation to access and benefit-sharing. 
2.	 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol shall periodically take stock of the use of voluntary codes of conduct, 
guidelines and best practices and/or standards and consider the adoption of specific 
codes of conduct, guidelines and best practices and/or standards. 
Article
21
AWARENESS-RAISING
Each Party shall take measures to raise awareness of the importance of genetic 
resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources, and related 
access and benefit-sharing issues. Such measures may include, inter alia:
(a)	 Promotion of this Protocol, including its objective;
(b)	 Organization of meetings of indigenous and local communities and relevant 
stakeholders;
(c)	 Establishment and maintenance of a help desk for indigenous and local 
communities and relevant stakeholders;
(d)	 Information dissemination through a national clearing-house;
by the domestic access and benefit-sharing legislation or regulatory requirements of 
the Party providing prior informed consent. 
4.	 The internationally recognized certificate of compliance shall contain the 
following minimum information when it is not confidential:
(a)	 Issuing authority;
(b)	 Date of issuance;
(c)	 The provider;
(d)	 Unique identifier of the certificate;
(e)	 The person or entity to whom prior informed consent was granted;
(f)	 Subject-matter or genetic resources covered by the certificate;
(g)	 Confirmation that mutually agreed terms were established;
(h) 	 Confirmation that prior informed consent was obtained; and
(i)	 Commercial and/or non-commercial use.
Article
18
COMPLIANCE WITH MUTUALLY AGREED TERMS
1.	 In the implementation of Article 6, paragraph 3 (g) (i) and Article 7, each 
Party shall encourage providers and users of genetic resources and/or traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources to include provisions in mutually 
agreed terms to cover, where appropriate, dispute resolution including:
(a)	 The jurisdiction to which they will subject any dispute resolution processes; 
(b)	 The applicable law; and/or
(c)	 Options for alternative dispute resolution, such as mediation or arbitration.
2.	 Each Party shall ensure that an opportunity to seek recourse is available under 
their legal systems, consistent with applicable jurisdictional requirements, in cases of 
disputes arising from mutually agreed terms. 
3.	 Each Party shall take effective measures, as appropriate, regarding: 
(a)	 Access to justice; and 
(b)	 The utilization of mechanisms regarding mutual recognition and 
enforcement of foreign judgments and arbitral awards.
4. 	 The effectiveness of this article shall be reviewed by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol in accordance with Article 31 of 
this Protocol. 


16
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
17
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
4.	 In support of the implementation of this Protocol, capacity-building and 
development may address, inter alia, the following key areas: 
(a) 	 Capacity to implement, and to comply with the obligations of, this Protocol; 
(b) 	 Capacity to negotiate mutually agreed terms; 
(c) 	 Capacity to develop, implement and enforce domestic legislative, 
administrative or policy measures on access and benefit-sharing; and 
(d) 	 Capacity of countries to develop their endogenous research capabilities to 
add value to their own genetic resources.
5.	 Measures in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 4 above may include, inter alia: 
(a)	 Legal and institutional development;
(b)	 Promotion of equity and fairness in negotiations, such as training to 
negotiate mutually agreed terms;
(c)	 The monitoring and enforcement of compliance;
(d)	 Employment of best available communication tools and Internet-based 
systems for access and benefit-sharing activities;
(e)	 Development and use of valuation methods;
(f)	 Bioprospecting, associated research and taxonomic studies;
(g)	 Technology transfer, and infrastructure and technical capacity to make such 
technology transfer sustainable; 
(h)	 Enhancement of the contribution of access and benefit-sharing activities 
to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its 
components;
(i)	 Special measures to increase the capacity of relevant stakeholders in relation 
to access and benefit-sharing; and
(j)	 Special measures to increase the capacity of indigenous and local 
communities with emphasis on enhancing the capacity of women within 
those communities in relation to access to genetic resources and/or 
traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources.
6.	 Information on capacity-building and development initiatives at national, 
regional and international levels, undertaken in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 5 
above, should be provided to the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House with a 
view to promoting synergy and coordination on capacity-building and development 
for access and benefit-sharing.
(e)	 Promotion of voluntary codes of conduct, guidelines and best practices 
and/or standards in consultation with indigenous and local communities 
and relevant stakeholders; 
(f)	 Promotion of, as appropriate, domestic, regional and international 
exchanges of experience;
(g)	 Education and training of users and providers of genetic resources and 
traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources about their access 
and benefit-sharing obligations;
(h)	 Involvement of indigenous and local communities and relevant 
stakeholders in the implementation of this Protocol; and
(i)	 Awareness-raising of community protocols and procedures of indigenous 
and local communities.
Article
22
CAPACITY
1.	 The Parties shall cooperate in the capacity-building, capacity development 
and strengthening of human resources and institutional capacities to effectively 
implement this Protocol in developing country Parties, in particular the least 
developed countries and small island developing States among them, and Parties 
with economies in transition, including through existing global, regional, 
subregional and national institutions and organizations. In this context, Parties 
should facilitate the involvement of indigenous and local communities and relevant 
stakeholders, including non-governmental organizations and the private sector. 
2.	 The need of developing country Parties, in particular the least developed 
countries and small island developing States among them, and Parties with 
economies in transition for financial resources in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Convention shall be taken fully into account for capacity-building 
and development to implement this Protocol.
3.	 As a basis for appropriate measures in relation to the implementation of this 
Protocol, developing country Parties, in particular the least developed countries and 
small island developing States among them, and Parties with economies in transition 
should identify their national capacity needs and priorities through national capacity 
self-assessments. In doing so, such Parties should support the capacity needs 
and priorities of indigenous and local communities and relevant stakeholders, as 
identified by them, emphasizing the capacity needs and priorities of women.


18
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
19
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
with economies in transition, for financial resources, as well as the capacity needs 
and priorities of indigenous and local communities, including women within these 
communities.
4. 	 In the context of paragraph 1 above, the Parties shall also take into account the 
needs of the developing country Parties, in particular the least developed countries 
and small island developing States among them, and of the Parties with economies 
in transition, in their efforts to identify and implement their capacity-building and 
development requirements for the purposes of the implementation of this Protocol.
5. 	 The guidance to the financial mechanism of the Convention in relevant decisions 
of the Conference of the Parties, including those agreed before the adoption of this 
Protocol, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the provisions of this Article.
6.	 The developed country Parties may also provide, and the developing country 
Parties and the Parties with economies in transition avail themselves of, financial and 
other resources for the implementation of the provisions of this Protocol through 
bilateral, regional and multilateral channels.
Article
26
CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE  
MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THIS PROTOCOL
1. 	 The Conference of the Parties shall serve as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol.
2. 	 Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Protocol may participate as 
observers in the proceedings of any meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol. When the Conference of the Parties 
serves as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, decisions under this Protocol 
shall be taken only by those that are Parties to it.
3. 	 When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol, any member of the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties representing 
a Party to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Protocol, shall be 
substituted by a member to be elected by and from among the Parties to this 
Protocol.
4. 	 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Protocol shall keep under regular review the implementation of this Protocol and 
shall make, within its mandate, the decisions necessary to promote its effective 
implementation. It shall perform the functions assigned to it by this Protocol and 
shall:
Article
23
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER, COLLABORATION  
AND COOPERATION
In accordance with Articles 15, 16, 18 and 19 of the Convention, the Parties shall 
collaborate and cooperate in technical and scientific research and development 
programmes, including biotechnological research activities, as a means to achieve 
the objective of this Protocol. The Parties undertake to promote and encourage 
access to technology by, and transfer of technology to, developing country Parties, 
in particular the least developed countries and small island developing States among 
them, and Parties with economies in transition, in order to enable the development 
and strengthening of a sound and viable technological and scientific base for the 
attainment of the objectives of the Convention and this Protocol. Where possible and 
appropriate such collaborative activities shall take place in and with a Party or the 
Parties providing genetic resources that is the country or are the countries of origin 
of such resources or a Party or Parties that have acquired the genetic resources in 
accordance with the Convention.
Article
24
NON-PARTIES
The Parties shall encourage non-Parties to adhere to this Protocol and to contribute 
appropriate information to the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House.
Article
25
FINANCIAL MECHANISM AND RESOURCES
1. 	 In considering financial resources for the implementation of this Protocol, the 
Parties shall take into account the provisions of Article 20 of the Convention.
2. 	 The financial mechanism of the Convention shall be the financial mechanism for 
this Protocol.
3. 	 Regarding the capacity-building and development referred to in Article 22 of 
this Protocol, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to this Protocol, in providing guidance with respect to the financial mechanism 
referred to in paragraph 2 above, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties, 
shall take into account the need of developing country Parties, in particular the least 
developed countries and small island developing States among them, and of Parties 


20
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
21
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
of its wish to be represented at a meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
a meeting of the Parties to this Protocol as an observer, may be so admitted, unless 
at least one third of the Parties present object. Except as otherwise provided in this 
Article, the admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the rules of 
procedure, as referred to in paragraph 5 above.
Article
27
SUBSIDIARY BODIES
1. 	 Any subsidiary body established by or under the Convention may serve this 
Protocol, including upon a decision of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Protocol. Any such decision shall specify the tasks to be 
undertaken.
2. 	 Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Protocol may participate 
as observers in the proceedings of any meeting of any such subsidiary bodies. When 
a subsidiary body of the Convention serves as a subsidiary body to this Protocol, 
decisions under this Protocol shall be taken only by Parties to this Protocol.
3. 	 When a subsidiary body of the Convention exercises its functions with regard to 
matters concerning this Protocol, any member of the bureau of that subsidiary body 
representing a Party to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Protocol, shall 
be substituted by a member to be elected by and from among the Parties to this Protocol.
Article
28
SECRETARIAT
1. 	 The Secretariat established by Article 24 of the Convention shall serve as the 
secretariat to this Protocol.
2. 	 Article 24, paragraph 1, of the Convention on the functions of the Secretariat 
shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Protocol.
3. 	 To the extent that they are distinct, the costs of the secretariat services for this 
Protocol shall be met by the Parties hereto. The Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall, at its first meeting, decide on the 
necessary budgetary arrangements to this end.
(a)	 Make recommendations on any matters necessary for the implementation 
of this Protocol; 
(b)	 Establish such subsidiary bodies as are deemed necessary for the 
implementation of this Protocol; 
(c)	 Seek and utilize, where appropriate, the services and cooperation of, and 
information provided by, competent international organizations and 
intergovernmental and non-governmental bodies; 
(d)	 Establish the form and the intervals for transmitting the information to be 
submitted in accordance with Article 29 of this Protocol and consider such 
information as well as reports submitted by any subsidiary body; 
(e)	 Consider and adopt, as required, amendments to this Protocol and its 
Annex, as well as any additional annexes to this Protocol, that are deemed 
necessary for the implementation of this Protocol; and
(f)	 Exercise such other functions as may be required for the implementation of 
this Protocol. 
5. 	 The rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties and financial rules of the 
Convention shall be applied, mutatis mutandis, under this Protocol, except as may 
be otherwise decided by consensus by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.
6. 	 The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Protocol shall be convened by the Secretariat and held concurrently 
with the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties that is scheduled after the 
date of the entry into force of this Protocol. Subsequent ordinary meetings of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall 
be held concurrently with ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties, unless 
otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Protocol.
7. 	 Extraordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to this Protocol shall be held at such other times as may be deemed 
necessary by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
this Protocol, or at the written request of any Party, provided that, within six months 
of the request being communicated to the Parties by the Secretariat, it is supported 
by at least one third of the Parties.
8. 	 The United Nations, its specialized agencies and the International Atomic 
Energy Agency, as well as any State member thereof or observers thereto not party 
to the Convention, may be represented as observers at meetings of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol. Any body or 
agency, whether national or international, governmental or non-governmental, that 
is qualified in matters covered by this Protocol and that has informed the Secretariat 


22
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
23
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
Article
33
ENTRY INTO FORCE
1. 	 This Protocol shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit 
of the fiftieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession by States 
or regional economic integration organizations that are Parties to the Convention.
2. 	 This Protocol shall enter into force for a State or regional economic integration 
organization that ratifies, accepts or approves this Protocol or accedes thereto after 
the deposit of the fiftieth instrument as referred to in paragraph 1 above, on the 
ninetieth day after the date on which that State or regional economic integration 
organization deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or 
accession, or on the date on which the Convention enters into force for that State or 
regional economic integration organization, whichever shall be the later.
3.	 For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, any instrument deposited by a 
regional economic integration organization shall not be counted as additional to 
those deposited by member States of such organization.
Article
34
RESERVATIONS
No reservations may be made to this Protocol. 
Article
35
WITHDRAWAL
1. 	 At any time after two years from the date on which this Protocol has entered 
into force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from this Protocol by giving written 
notification to the Depositary.
2. 	 Any such withdrawal shall take place upon expiry of one year after the date of its 
receipt by the Depositary, or on such later date as may be specified in the notification 
of the withdrawal.
Article
29
MONITORING AND REPORTING
Each Party shall monitor the implementation of its obligations under this Protocol, 
and shall, at intervals and in the format to be determined by the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, report to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol on 
measures that it has taken to implement this Protocol. 
Article
30
PROCEDURES AND MECHANISMS TO PROMOTE  
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PROTOCOL
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol 
shall, at its first meeting, consider and approve cooperative procedures and 
institutional mechanisms to promote compliance with the provisions of this Protocol 
and to address cases of non-compliance. These procedures and mechanisms shall 
include provisions to offer advice or assistance, where appropriate. They shall be 
separate from, and without prejudice to, the dispute settlement procedures and 
mechanisms under Article 27 of the Convention. 
Article
31
ASSESSMENT AND REVIEW
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol 
shall undertake, four years after the entry into force of this Protocol and thereafter at 
intervals determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Protocol, an evaluation of the effectiveness of this Protocol.
Article
32
SIGNATURE
This Protocol shall be open for signature by Parties to the Convention at the United 
Nations Headquarters in New York, from 2 February 2011 to 1 February 2012. 


24
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
25
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-sharing
(c)	 Participation in product development; 
(d)	 Collaboration, cooperation and contribution in education and training; 
(e)	 Admittance to ex situ facilities of genetic resources and to databases; 
(f)	 Transfer to the provider of the genetic resources of knowledge and 
technology under fair and most favourable terms, including on concessional 
and preferential terms where agreed, in particular, knowledge and 
technology that make use of genetic resources, including biotechnology, or 
that are relevant to the conservation and sustainable utilization of biological 
diversity; 
(g)	 Strengthening capacities for technology transfer; 
(h)	 Institutional capacity-building; 
(i)	 Human and material resources to strengthen the capacities for the 
administration and enforcement of access regulations; 
(j)	 Training related to genetic resources with the full participation of countries 
providing genetic resources, and where possible, in such countries;
(k)	 Access to scientific information relevant to conservation and sustainable 
use of biological diversity, including biological inventories and taxonomic 
studies; 
(l)	 Contributions to the local economy; 
(m)	 Research directed towards priority needs, such as health and food security, 
taking into account domestic uses of genetic resources in the Party 
providing genetic resources; 
(n)	 Institutional and professional relationships that can arise from an access 
and benefit-sharing agreement and subsequent collaborative activities; 
(o)	 Food and livelihood security benefits; 
(p)	 Social recognition; 
(q)	 Joint ownership of relevant intellectual property rights.
Article
36
AUTHENTIC TEXTS
The original of this Protocol, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian 
and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized to that effect, 
have signed this Protocol on the dates indicated.
DONE at Nagoya on this twenty-ninth day of October, two thousand and ten.
Annex
MONETARY AND NON-MONETARY BENEFITS
1. 	 Monetary benefits may include, but not be limited to: 
(a)	 Access fees/fee per sample collected or otherwise acquired; 
(b)	 Up-front payments; 
(c)	 Milestone payments; 
(d)	 Payment of royalties; 
(e)	 Licence fees in case of commercialization; 
(f)	 Special fees to be paid to trust funds supporting conservation and 
sustainable use of biodiversity; 
(g)	 Salaries and preferential terms where mutually agreed; 
(h)	 Research funding; 
(i)	 Joint ventures; 
(j)	 Joint ownership of relevant intellectual property rights. 
2. 	 Non-monetary benefits may include, but not be limited to: 
(a)	 Sharing of research and development results; 
(b)	 Collaboration, cooperation and contribution in scientific research and 
development programmes, particularly biotechnological research activities, 
where possible in the Party providing genetic resources;