Eft 803 AIT ( hows

1. A pharmaceutical and dietary supplement composition having synergistic ant-
adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (aP2), ant-S-Lipoxygenase Activating Protein
(FLAP) and anti-Cysteiny! Leukotriene (Cys LT) -1 receptor activities comprising an
effective amount of a Boswellia serrate extract or fraction selectively entiched in 3-0-
‘acety|-11-keto-B-boswelic acid (AKBA) and fruit ethanol extracts derived from Aegle
_marmelos for use in the protection from, treatment of and control of inflammatory
respiratory disorders, optionally selected from asthma, allergic rhinitis, hay fever,
type-1 hypersensitivity and mild allergies, or topical conditions, optionally selected
from eczema, psoriasis and wrinkles,

2. A composition for use according to ciaim 1, wherein the percentage of the
‘enriched Boswellia extracts) or fracton(s) obtained from Boswellia serrata In the
composition is in the range of 1-95% and the percentage of the extract(s) or
fracion(s) of Aegie marmelas in the composition isin the range of 595%.

8. A composition for use according to claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising an
‘effective amount of extract(s) oF fraction(s) or pure isolate(s) derived from Zingiber
Offcinale andlor Garcinia mangostana.

4. A composition for us

‘according to claim 3, wherein the percentage of the
enriched Boswelia extracts) or fracion(s) cbtsined from Boswellia serrata in the
‘composition isin the range of 1-75%, the percentage of the extract(s) or fraction’s)
‘of Aagle marmelos in the composition isin the range of 5-75%, the percentage of the
Cextract(s) of Zingiber officinale in the composition is inthe range of 1- 50% and the
percentage of extract(s) of Garcinia mangostana in the composition is in the range of
1.50%.

‘5. A composition for use according to any one of claitns 1 to 4, further comprising
‘one or more pharmaceutically, detically and nutraceuticaly acceptable additives or
excipients.

6. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the enriched
‘extract or fraction of Boswellia serrate is an extract standardized to 30% AKBA.

Fra


7. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the 3-0-
‘acetyl-11-keto-B:boswelic acid (AKBA) concentration in the enriched extracts or
‘enriched fractions of Boswellia serrata varies from 10% to 99%, or from 20% to 60%
(oF from 25% to 45%.

8. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 7, provided in
combination with an effective amount of one or more known antiinflammatory or
antiasthma or immune modulating herbal extracts or fractions.

9. A compostion for use according to any one of claims 1 to 8, provided in
combination with an effective amount of one or more pharmaceutically or dietetcally
acceptable anti-oxidants, adaptogens, bioavalabilly enhancers and trace metals or
‘mbeures thereof

10. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 9, adapted for
‘administration through oral, parenteral, nasal, inhalation, including nebulzors,
transdermal, ocular and any other suitable route.

411. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
composition is in the form of:

{suitable pharmaceutical and dietary supplement dosage form for oral
‘administration, optionally selected from tablets, soft capsules, hard capsules,
pills, granules, powders, emulsions, suspensions, sprays, syrups and pellets;
or

‘a suitable pharmaceutical and dietary supplement dosage form for parenteral
administration, optionally selected from injections, drops and suppositories; or

2 suitable nutrtional/dietary supplement dosage form, optionally selected from
cereals, baby foods, healthy foods, or food for spetiied health uses such as
Solid food like chocolate or nutritional bars, semisolid food like cream or jam,
‘or gol and also beverage and the lke, such as refreshing beverage, lactic acid
bacteria beverage, drop, candy, chewing gum, chocolate, gummy candy,
yoghurt, ice cream, pudding, sof adzuki bean jelly, jelly, cookie and the ike

2%


12, Use of a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein a
therapeutically effective amount of the composition Is administered to humans or
animals in need thereot as a pharmaceutical or nutraceutcal or dietary supplement
for ametiorating conditions related to acipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (aP2)
andlor 5 -Lipoxygenase Activating Protein (FLAP) or Cysteiny Leukotriene (Cys LT)
1 receptor expressions or activites.

418. The use according to claim 12, wherein the amount ofthe composition or dosage
form administered to a human or an animal in need thereof varies in the range of
0.01 to 500 mg/kg body weight/day.

114, The use according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the mode of action is through
the inhibition of adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (ap2) expression.

”


Era dOSA

Arana, dass plan

Zngiber oflcinale (Ging) has been used as a treatment for nausea, dlarthea and
igaric and joint pains in Ayurvedic and tadtonal Chinese medicine. Ginger has
sntihisaminic activity. Ginge'soleresin constituents have potent inhibitory effect on
the bioaynthesis of pro inflammatory prostaglandins and Jeckotienes. Shogaol and
Paraiol inhibit COX2 activity and Gingerol inhibits 5-LOX enzyme activity
(Cesdrapeta,E, et al, Bioorg, Chem, 29, 156-163, 2001; Srivastava, KC. etal Med.
‘Hypoth, 39, 42348, 1992). ln an vnconrled tial, al seven atts patients treated
‘with half gram of powdered ginger per day reported pain relief and decreased signs of
inflammation (Srivastava, K.C, etal, Med Hypoth, 38, 342-348, 1992). Ginger root
extracts standardized to 5 - 15% gingerols are used to prepare this composition. Extracts
standardized to other concentrations and other components could tls be used for making
‘he present invective composition.

Garcia mangstona 1, belongs to Gutlene faniy. It Is commonly Inown as
Mangoree Mangoten i slow-growing topical, evrgen tec tnd can tin 625m
in eight wth lenthery glabrous eves (B.N. Sas, The Wea of India Raw materials,
YVol.1V: p 103-105, 1956). The wee is mais found in nds, Myanmar, Si Lanka and
“Thaiand, Th eile Suits ofthis plan are considered tobe on ofthe bet fal tropical
fruits. Inthe ayurvedic system of medicine, the fruit hull of the plant finds wite
splication, manly as an at-iflamsatory agent and in the westment of dares (V
Peres ea, Plytchemisry 55: pp 6-71, 200; V, Peres etl, Phyochemisty 4:
1p 191-214, 1997, Garcinia mangos alshl exact or hyéroalshol standin! to
ce-mungostin is wed inthe preset mention, However Garcinia magastna exits
selectively enihed In ymangosto my aloe wed,

‘The we of Boswellia extract i known as a dietary supplesiet to contol inflammatory
‘conditions. For example, US2006/040000 discloses a composition comprising a mixture
‘of Boswellia exact, salts of glucosamine and curcuminoids. The composition also
ptionally contens bromelin, chondroitin, methylsulfenylmethane, resveratrol, extracts,
‘of white willow and ginger and quercetin,


3a

Aegle marmelos extract is also known to treat certain medical conditions. For example,
‘Anu, V et al. fighter medicine, 11, 679-683, 2004) discloses the use of the sleoholic
‘extract of the leaves of Aegle marmelos to weat asthma. Lankaputiravans (Indradeva
‘Tripathi, 1995, Krishoadas Academy, Varanass, India, page 117) discloses a
formulation containing extracts of both Aegle marmelos and Zingiber officinale along
with afew other ingredients used forthe treatment of allergenic rhinitis and vasomotor
thinortoea. Panditarao (1990, Govt of India: Sahasrayogs, New Delhi, page 63)
iscloses another formulation containing extracts ofboth Aegle marmelas and Zingiber
Cffcinale along with afew other ingredients used for the treatment of bronchial asthma
‘through oral administration.

‘Objects of the inventio

‘The major objective of the preseat invention is to provide Pharmaceutica/Dictary
‘supplement compositions comprising Boswellia serrata extract selectively enriched in 3-
(O-acey-11-keo-f-boswellic acd (AKBA) and extracts of dele marmelas for improved
therapeatic effect in the prevention, treatment and control of asthma and other
inflammatory diseases.
