MEISSNER BOLTE

Postfach 860624
181633 Munchen

07 827 609.4 Myev.-028-PC/EP
‘Sunev Pharma Solution Limited Corporate augue 2e 211
‘AUXILIARY REQUEST

Anise ims gs

1. A topical wound healing formulation comprising
2) 4107 % of an aqueous extract of the barks of Azadirachta indica,
) amoil-herbs mix consisting of

ratios along with
extracts of the twelve following herbs er-extrectot herbs selected-from-the
group compeaning
0.5 to 4 % of the roots of Berbers arstata, of the stems of Glycyrrhiza
labra, of the stems, leaves and flowers of Jasminum officinale, ofthe rizo-
‘mas of Picrorhiza kurraoa, of the seeds or leaves of Pongamia pinnats, of the
stems of Rubia cordifolia, of the rhizomes of Saussurea lappa, of the frults of
‘Terminalia chebula, of the fruits of Capsicum and of the flowers of Stellata
wild, 6 to 996 of the roots of Curcuma longa and of the fruits or leaves of
‘Trichosanthes dca, and-ollein-equatratios

©) mixed with adjuncts, such as thickening agents, preservatives, coloring agents,

decolorizing agents, fragrances, opacifiers and vitamines, wherein the-extract-of



ersen Bore yevi-028-pc/er
"AUGUST 26, 2011

‘Auniiaty REQUEST

[MaBxED-UP VERSION

23. A topical wound healing formulation according to atleast any-one-of-ciaims 1
‘an-2, wherein the formulation has synergistic antibacterial, anti-fungal, anti-
Inflammatory, analgesic, entienidanty and immuno-modulatory properties which-and
Increases the blood flow, Uhus-eliminoting-undesirabie-side-effects-ond-exhibiting re
morkable-efficaey-in-treating incurable wounds.

35. A topical wound healing formulation according to atieast-any one of the preced-
ing claims, wherein the preservative is copper sulphate, wherein the thickening agent
is bee wax and wherein the decolorizing agent is activated charcoal.

46. A topical wound healing formulation according to atieast-any one of the preced=
Ing claims, wherein the concentration of the copper sulphate ranges from 0.1 to
0.5%, and/or the concentration of bee wax ranges from 1 to 7% by weight.

[S.A process for preparing the topical wound healing formulation according to at
least any one of the preceding of claims, which comprises the steps of:

+ preparing an aqueous extract by taking water and dry bark of Azadirachta in-
<dica in the ratio of 16 parts water to 1 part of bark, boing the same to re-
duce the water to 1/4" of the original concentration and fering the same;



essen Bure yevi-02s-rcyeP
‘AUGUST 26, 2011

‘nuritane REQUEST

Maaxeo-UP VERSION

preparing an extract of herbs by mixing four olls iz castor, mustard, coconut
and black sesame olls in equal ratios to each other and adding appropriate
uantities of dry powdered parts/ alcohol extract of the herbs Berberis
aristata, Curcuma longa, Glycyrrhiza glabra, Jasminum officinale, Picrorhiza
kurrooa, Pongamia pinnata, Rubla cordifolia, Saussurea lappa, Terminalla
chebula, Trichosanthes diocia, Capsicum, and Stellata wild to the oll mixture;

+ preparing 2 formulation by adding the aqueous extract of Azadirachta Indica
to the extract of herbs and boling till the water evaporates completely, fol-
lowed by the addition of adjuncts such as thickeners, preservatives deodoriz-
lng agents, coloring agents, fragrances, opacifiers and vitamins.

'§8. Use of the topical wound healing formulation according to ateastany one of
Claims 4 to 64 a5 8 medicament for-improving-the-bioed-How,-for-improving them
_muno-medulatory- properties in addition to-being-ontibacteriat-antifunga-onti
inflommatory-ond-onalgese

29. Use of a topical wound healing formulation according to at-eastany one of
claims 4 to 64 for treating infections, chronic non-healing wounds, lke diabetic foot
ulcer, dry and wet gangrene, venous ulcer, varicose veins, war wounds, and burn
‘wounds, and-pest-eperative-situations.

840. Use of the topical wound healing formulation according to atieast-any one of
claims 1 to 64 for preventing amputations.



MeIssSNER BOLTE

Postfach 860624
'81633 Munchen

07 827 609.4 August 26, 2011
Sunev Pharma Solution Limited Corporate wre -oza ere
MAIN REQUEST

1, A topical wound healing formulation comprising
2) 4107 % of an aqueous extract of the barks of Azadirachta indica,
») r isting of
‘mixture of castor oll, mustard ol, coconut oll and black sesame oil in equal
‘ratios along with
‘extracts of the twelve following herbs ar-extract-of herbs selected-from-the
groepeompesing
0.5 to 4 % of the roots of Berbers arstata, of the stems of Glycyrrhiza
labra, of the stems, leaves and flowers of Jasminum officinale, of the rizo-
‘mas of Picrorhiza kurrooa, of the seeds or leaves of Pongamia pinnata, of the
stems of Rubia cordifolia, of the chizomes of Saussurea lappa, of the fruits of
‘Terminalia chebula, ofthe fruits of Capsicum and of the flowers of Stellata
Wild, 6 to 996 of the roots of Curcuma longa and of the fruits or leaves of -
‘Trichosanthes diocia, and-oileinequat-ratios -
©) mixed with adjuncts, such as thickening agents, preservatives, coloring agents,

ecolorizing agents, fragrances, opacifies and vitamines, wherein-the-extract-of
hrerbs-are-o-or aleohol-entracts,



Meissen BoLTe mevo2secier
‘August 26, 2011

Main Request

RKED-UP VERSION

2. A topical wound healing formulation according to claim 1, wherein the extract of
hherbs comprises additionally 0:5-to-43t-of-the-borks-of Symplocos racemosa and/or of
the-roote-of Ichnocarpus frutescens

13. A topical wound healing formulation according to at least any one of claims 1 and
2, wherein the formulation has synergistic antibacterial, anti-fungal, enti
inflammatory, analgesic, antioxidant; and Immuno-modulatory properties whieh-and
increases the bioad flow, Uhus-etimmating-undesivable-cide-clfects-ond-extbiting Fe
markable efficacy ntreating incurable wounds.

black sesome-ot:

45. A topical wound healing formulation according to at-eest-any one of the preced-
ing claims, wherein the preservative is copper sulphate, wherein the thickening agent
Js bee wax and wherein the decolorizing agent Is activated charcoal.

56. A topical wound healing formulation according to at-least-any one of the preced-
ing claims, wherein the concentration of the coppér sulphate ranges from 0.1 to
10.5%, andjor the concentration of bee wax ranges from 1 to 79% by weight.

| 9% A process for preparing the topical wound healing formulation according to at
least any one of the preceding of claims, which comprises the steps of:

= preparing an aqueous extract by taking water and dry bark of Azadirachta In-
dica in the ratio of 16 parts water to 1 part of bark, bolling the same to re-
duce the water to 1/4" of the original concentration and fitering the same;

= preparing an extract of herbs by mixing four oils viz castor, mustard, coconut
{and black sesame olls in equal ratios to each other and adding appropriate



maissnen BoLTE yev-o28-ecye
‘August 26, 2011

ain Request

HARKED-UP VERSION

{quantities of dry powdered parts/ alcohol extract of the herbs Berberis,
aristata, Curcuma longa, Glycyrrhiza glabra, Jasminum officinale, Pcrorhiza
Pongamia pinnata, Rubia cordifolia, Saussurea lappa, Terminalia
chebula, Trichosanthes diocia, Capsicum, and Stellata wild to the oll mixture;

kurroo

= preparing a formulation by adding the aqueous extract of Azadirachta Indica
to the extract of herbs and boiling till the water evaporates completely fo
lowed by the addition of adjuncts such as thickeners, preservatives deodoriz~
Ing agents, coloring agents, fragrances, opacifiers and vitamins.

2B. Use of the topical wound healing formulation according to atteast-any one of
claims 1 to 65 as a medicament forimpreving-the-bieed-low,-for improving-the im
mane-modulatory properties in addtion-to-being-entibecterial- antifungal antl
‘inflammatory ond onaigese.

89. Use of a topical wound healing formulation according to at-east-any one of
alms 1 to 65 for treating infections, chronic non-healing wounds, like diabetic foot
ulcer, dry and wet gangrene, venous ulcer, varicose veins, war wounds, and burn

‘wounds, and-pest-operative situations.

'240. Use of the topical wound healing formulation according to at-east-any one of
calms 1 to 65 for preventing amputations.

