INTHE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE

Applicant; Klein
Appl.No: 12/676.957
Cont. No; 6308

Filed: 27 July 2010
Tite:
An Unit, 1655

Examiner: Clark
Docket No: 182904-17430200

‘Commissioner for Patents
P.O. Box 1450
Alexandria, VA 22313-1450
AMENDMENT
Sie
This Amendment isin reply to the Office Action that was mailed 14 February 2012.

Requested herewith i a three-month extension of time, along with payment therefor made
concurrently herewith, making the due date for reply, 14 August 2012.

‘Amendment to the Specification i found on page Sof this paper.

Remarks begin on page 6 of this paper.



US. Ser. No. 12676957
‘Amendment

INTHE CLAIMS:

Te following listing of claims will replace ll prior versions and listings of claims inthe
pplication:

1. (Withdrawn) A process for the preparation of pomegranate seeds oil extract comprising
the following steps:

2) providing isolated pomegranate seeds;

b)_cold-pressing the seeds o obtain an oil; and optionally

©) pressuresfiltering the resulting ol, to obtain clear ol.

(Withdrawn) The process of claim 1, wherein suid isolated pomegranate soods are
isolated from the fermentation product of pomegranate sacs fermented with natural yeas

3. (Withdrawn) A process for the preparation of pomegranate-lower extract, comprising the
following steps:
8) immersing pomegranate inflorescence in 70% alcohol at room temperature for 8
suitable period of time, while mixing at suitable intervals;
) steaming and thickening the mixture obtained instep (a) until the aleohol has been
removed to give a pomegranate flower extract

4. (Withdrawn) A process forthe preparation of pomegranate peel extract from
pomegranates, comprising the fallowing steps:
2) immersing pomegranate inflorescence in 70% alcohol at room temperature for 8
suitable period of time, while mixing a suitable intervals;
') steaming and thickening the mixture obtained in step (4) until the alcohol has been
removed to give a pomegranate peel extract.

5. (Withdrawn) A process forthe preparation of pomegranate infloreseence/peel extrac,
‘comprising mixing the inflorescence extract obtained by the process of elaim 3 with the
pomegranate pool extract obtained by the process of claim 4 a a 1:1 ratio (w/9.

6. (Withdrawn) A process forthe preparation of pomegranate pee! powder from
pomegranates, comprising the steps of:

a) crushing whole pomegranate:

'b) fermenting the dry material (.e, peel and seeds) obtained in step (a) together with
natural yeast at 28°C for a suitable period of time, while mixing at suitable
intervals;

©) washing the resulting material with water to remove the seed membrane;


US. Ser, No. 12676987
“Amendment

4) drying the material obtained in step (c) at 42°C;
©) transfering the dry material obtained instep (A) 1 vibrator forthe separation of

the peel from the seeds; and
grinding the dry pocl wo powder.

7-10. (Canceled)
11, (Currently Amended) A pomegranate peel powder obtained-by-the process oFelaim 6.

12, (Currently Amended) A medical composition forthe treatment of skin sores, comprising
as active ingredient atleast one of pomegranate sce oil and pomegranate flower extract, and
‘optionally of pomegranate peel extract,

13, (Currently Amended) The composition of claim 12, futher comprising wheren-seid

14, (Previously presented) The composition of claim 12, wherein said skin sores are diabetic
sores, pressure sores, ulvers or aene vulgaris,

15. Original) A kit forthe treatment of skin Sores compr
a) pomegranate lower gxtract; +
‘b)__pomegranate peel extract;
©) pomegranate ol extract;
ed) pomegranate peel powder:
dg) means for applying the suid pomegranate Nower extract, « pool extract,

Pomegranate ol extract andor pomegranate peel powder to said skin sores;
© optionally bandages; and
£3) instructions for use.

16, (Currently Amended) The kit of claim 15, wherein said pomegranate seed-oibenteaets
obiainad-by-the-provess-oFelaim-t-or2-antor-said-pomogranate flower extract + and said peel
‘extract sare combined and are present in ebtained-by the process of lain 3-and claim tata 1:1
(011) ratio andor said pomegranate peel powder is obtained -by the proves oF olan 6,

17, (Currently Amended) The kit of claim 15, wherein said pomegranate flower extract
and + said pec! extract is are combined and contained in an atomizer.


US. Ser. No, 12676957
‘Amendment

18. (Currently Amended) The kit of claim 15, wherein said skin sores are any of diabetic
sores, pressure sores ulcers and or acne vulgaris.

19. (Withdrawn, Currently Amended) A method of treating a skin sores, comprising the
following steps:

a) washing the sore thoroughly, and drying it and its surroundings:

') optionally applying to the sore pomegranate Nlowers-+ extract;

‘©.__applying to the sore pee extract;

ed) applying to the sores pomegranate oil extract;

de) powdering the sores with pomegranate peel powder;

© optionally bandaging the sore; and

Fg) repeating steps (b)-(€g) twice a day.

20, (Withdrawn, Currently Amended) The method of claim 19, wherein said pomegranate

ained by the: ai wate ower
tract + and sil peel extract ivobtained-by-theproces+-oFelaim-3-and-elaim-+at arc combinsd
and are presen i a 1:1 ratior-andlorsaid pomegranaie-peet- powders obteined by the process of
claims,

21, (Withdrawn, Currently Amended) The method of claim 19, wherein said skin soresare is
diabetic sores, a pressure sores, an ulcers or an acne vulgar

22, (Withdrawn, Currently Amended) The method of elaim 19, wherein pomegranate
Aowers-+ extract said wed peel extract or pomegranate ol extract are is applied by spraying.

23,-26.(Canecled)
27. (New) The composition of claim 12, further comprising pomegranate peel powder.

28. (New) The composition of claim 13, wherein said flower extract and said peel extract are
‘combined and are present in 1:1 (9) ratio,
