‘Application Ne. 1902272 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Respoasive wo Ofie Acton mid Febray 27,2017

REMARKS,

‘The paper is in response to the Final Office Action mailed February 27, 2017 (the “Ofice
Action”). The foregoing section “AMENDMENTS TO THE CLAIMS” defines the status of
cach claim.

Applicants respectfully request reconsideration of the application in view of the above
amendments to the claims and the following remarks. For Examiner's convenience and
reference, Applicants present remarks in the order that the Orfice Action raises the corresponding,

In connection with the prosecution of this case and any related cases, Applicants have,
and/or may, discuss various aspects of the disclosure of the cited references as those references
fare thea understood by Applicants. Because such discussion could reflect an
incorrect understanding of one ot more of the references, the position of Applicants with respect
to.a reference is not necessarily fixed or irrevocable. Applicants thus hereby reserve the right,

both during and after prosecution of this case, to modify the views expressed with regard to any

mmplete oF

reference,

Please note that Applicants do not intend the following remarks to be an exhaustive
‘enumeration of the distinctions between any cited references and the claims. Rather, Applicants
present the distinctions below solely by way of example to illustrate some of the differences
between the claims and the cited references, Finally, Applicants request that Examiner carefully
review any references discussed below to ensure that Appl

nts” understanding and discussion

of any reference is consistent with Examiner’s understanding.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the term “Applicants” is used herein generically and
may refer to a single inventor, a set of inventors, an appropriate assignee, or any other entity oF
person with authority to prosecute this application,

Page 5 of 15


‘Application Ne. 1902272 “Atorny Docket Number K1067 100130802
Respoasive wo Ofie Acton mid Febray 27,2017

537, Retrieved from: TKDL on 9/8/2016), The Office Action also rejects claims 1, 2 and 4-18
under 35 U.S.C. § 102(b) over ida et al. (JP200S145948). According to MPEP § 2131, a claim is
anticipated under 35 U.S.C. § 102(a), (b), oF e) “only if each and every element as set forth in
the claim is found, ether expressly or inherently described, in a single prior art reference.” The

reference must show the identical invention in as complete detail as is contained in the claim.

Finally, the elements must be arranged or combined as required by the claim.

Applicants do not necessarily agree with Examiner's statements regarding at least (1)
Whether Mudaliar or Ida discloses each and every element recited in the claims, (2) whether
Mudaliar or Ida teaches the combination presented in the claims, and (3) whether Mudaliar or a
or Ida

includes. Nevertheless, in the interest of expediting prosecution, Applicants have herein amended

discloses or inherently includes the features that the Office Action asserts that Mud

independent claim 1 to recite subject matter that is not taught or suggested by Mudaliar or Ida
The originally filed and pending claims provide suppor for the claim amendments.

‘The Applicant has amended claim I and cancelled claims 5,12,13,14 and 15 to recite subject
‘matter that is not taught or suggested by Mudaliar or Ida. Further, the Applicant has amended
“composition comprising” into “composition consisting essentially of” to narrow the claim
language. Now, Mudalair and Ida are excluded because their compositions necessarily include

many more essential ingredients than those of the present claims. In fact, neither Mudalair nor

Ida teaches or suggests that a palm leaf extract alone as the only effect iabetic substance
in a composition can be used for treating a diabetic subject. Now, by reciting “composition
consisting essentially of a substance having an anti-diabetic property, the substance being palm
leaf extract” the claims are limited to compositions much different from those in Mudalair and
Ida because the compositions in Mudalair and Ida require much more than just “a substance
having an anti-diabetic property, the substance being palm leaf extract which includes
biophenols, proteins, lpids, saccharides, minerals and small peptides.” The amended claim 1
now reads as!

4 method of treating a diabetic subject, the method comprising:

Page 6 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

4. providing a, composition consisting essentially ofa substance having an ani-
dhabere property, the subsiance being palm leaf extract which includes biophenols, proven,
‘ipds,saccharides, minerals and small peptides; anal

i, administering the composition in a pharmaceutically effective amount 10 the
diabetic subject to treat diabetes disease.

‘The Applicant noted that Mudaliar teaches a composition with 31. substances as
ingredients which includes cocas »meiera (coconut palm) as one of the ingredient of the “Avarai
[Nei composition. However, Mudaliar does not disclose which one or more substances is/are
used for treating the “all types of Diabetes mellitus” (see page 2 to 4 of Mudaliar). Whereas,
claim 1 of the present invention clearly indicates that only one ingredient ie. the palm leaf
extract is needed to treat diabetes disease (see lines 5-8, page 1 of the originally filed
specification),

In addition, the amended claim 1 indicates thatthe palm leaf extract includes biophenols,

proteins, lipids, saccharides, minerals and small peptides (see lines 19 -23, page 7 of originally

filed specification). These substances are crucial features of the present invention as they
contribute anti-diabetic and organ health promoting properties (see lines 25-27, page 8 of the
‘originally filed specification). However, Mudaliar does not disclose the above mentioned
substances, therefore it is apparent that teachings of Mudaliar are distinctive over present

invention

Further, the amended claim 1 of the present invention includes the transition phrase
“consisting essentially of” with respect to the subsfance having an anti-diabetic property, the
subsiance being palm leaf extract. tn view of the above and disclosure of Mudaliar, we can
deduce that, the 31 substances are an essential feature of Mudaliar’s composition. However,

these components are not needed and excluded from the composition of the present invention by

presence of the transitional phrase “consisting essentially of” in claim 1, As such, itis clear that

Page 7 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

On the separate note, the Examiner has indicated that the Applicant's argument is not
found persuasive because Mudaliar discloses that the composition comprising water extract of
Cocos Nucifera leaf is effective at weating diabetes. It appears that Cocos Nucifera in
‘combination with other substances is effective at treating diabetes (see page 4 of Mudaliar) but
nowhere, in Mudaliar it is disclosed that Cacas Nucifera alone is sufficient to treat di
Therefore
31 substances to treat diabetes. As such, the present invention is distinctive as it teaches that
palm leaf extract alone is sufficient to treat diabetes disease (see lines 3-9, page 4 of the
‘originally filed specification). Moreover, the new claims recite subject matter tha i not taught or
suggested by Mudaliar.

isnot evident to a person skilled in art to specifically choose Cocos Nncifera out of

‘Additionally, the Examiner has indicated that Ida teaches a method of treating diabetes
‘comprising administering a methanol or ethanol extract of Phoenix rupicola leaves and it does
‘not require any additional ingredients. Further, da teaches that the formulation can be
administered as tablet, capsule, suppository, injections, emulsions or liquid solution with the
dose of SOmg/kg. However, it is clearly stated in Ida that there are 4 compounds (compound 1 is
cell death inducer and compounds 2, 3 and 4 are antitumor agent inthe invention thereof and
page 4 of
Ia et al) As such, Phoenix rupicola is taught to be an antitumor agent, but not an antidiabetic,

specifically compound 4 is extracted from Phoenix rupicola (see lines 0018 and 00:

agent, and nowhere does Ida teach that compounds 1, 2, 3, or 4 or extract of Phoente rupicola
ccan be used to treat diabetes. Meanwhile, the presently claimed invention does not include the
‘ther specific compounds of Ida and presently claimed invention focuses only on palm leaf
‘extract (see lines 25-27, page 7 of originally filed specification),

Paragraph 23 as cited in the Office Action states thatthe specifically pure compounds 1,
2, 3, or4 (eg., compound (1) (4)) can be obtained by extraction method. Then paragraphs 24-25
teach that purification must be performed, and thereby after such purification t0 obtain the
‘compounds 1, 2, 3, oF 4, there is no longer an extract, especially not one with the substances
required in claim 1, Nowhere does it teach a palm leaf extract is obtained that can be used to treat
diabetes, Ida focuses on compounds to cause cell death, but not a palm leaf extract that be used
to teat diabetes,

Page 8 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

A careful reading of paragraph 37 never teaches which compound 1-4 can be used to treat
diabetes, and in fact, no compound or extract is taught to be useful for treating diabetes. The
paragraph merely states the cell death inducer, which means one of compounds 1-4 may be
applied to other diseases, where diabetes i listed, but the paragraph never actually teaches itis
useful. This paragraph is more of the “maybe try one of the compounds on other diseases,” There
is never an affirmative statement that any of the compounds 1-4 actually can be used to treat
diabetes, there is no evidence they can be used to treat diabetes, and no suggestion that the
extract of palm leaf can be used to treat diabetes and there is no evidence that a cell death
inducer would be actually useful for treating diabetes

Applicants respectfully point out that pancreatic beta cell death causes diabetes, and
thereby nobody of ordinary skill in the art would actually try to treat diabetes by killing
pancreatic beta cells.

Applicants also note thatthe examples of Ida clearly require purification and thereby the
resulting compounds are not considered extracts. Further, there is clearly no teaching in Ida that
‘an extract of palm leaf that includes biophenols, proteins, lipids, saccharides, minerals and small

peptides can be used to treat diabetes.

In addition, the amended claim 1 clearly indicates that the palm leaf extract includes
biophenols, proteins, lipids, saccharides, minerals and small peptides (see lines 19 -23, page 7 of
‘originally filed specification), These substances are crucial features of the present invention as it
contributes anti diabetic and organ health promoting properties (see lines 25-27, page 8 of the
‘originally filed specification), la does not disclose or teach that the above mentioned substances
are included in a pal leaf extract, therefore the presently claimed invention is novel and non-
‘obvious over Ida

Further, the amended claim 1 of the present invention includes the transition phrase

“consisting essentially of” with respect to the substance having an anti-diabetic property, the

substance being palm leaf extract. In view of the above and disclosure of Ida, we can deduce
‘that, specifically compound 4 from the extract of Phoenix rupicola isan essential feature of the
Ida composition. However, these components are not needed and excluded from the composition
of the present invention by presence of the transitional phrase “consisting essentially of” in claim

Page 9 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

1. As such, it is apparent that the composition of palm leaf extract of the present invention is

different than the composition of Ida

‘The amendments presented herein, taken as a whole, render the rejections moot. The
Applicant notes that portions of the claims, other than those specifically amended and/or
‘mentioned above, may contribute to patentability. In light of the references as now understood by
the Applicant and the amendments made herein, the claims appear to be allowable. The
Applicant therefore respectfully requests the Examiner to withdraw the rejections under 38
USC § 102 of the cl

‘Rejections under 35 U.S.C. § 105(a)

‘The Office Action rejects claims I-15, 18 and 19 under 35 U.S.C. § 103(a) over Mudatiar
in view of Nursing rimes (“The administration of medicines”. Internet publication date: 2007-11-
19 [Retrieved from the Intemet on: 2016-09-09]. Retrieved from the Intemet: <URL:

i>). The Office Action also rejects claims 1-20 under 35 USC. § 103(a)
‘over Ida in view of Agasdhivar (*Nilapanai Kirutham” from Agasthiyar Vaithya Rathina
‘Churukkam, Ed. Pub: Thamarai Noolagam, Chennai (1998, 2nd edition), pp. 69-70, Retrieved
from: TKDL on 2/18/2017) and Nursing times

Applicants do not necessarily agree with Examiner's statements reyarding at least (1)
Whether the cited reference(s) disclose each and every element recited in the claims, (2) whether
the cited reference(s) teach the combination presented in the claims, (3) whether the cited
reference(s) disclose or inherently include the features that the Office Action asserts that the
reference(s) include, and (4) whether the reference(s) or any other source provide a reason to
‘combine the teachings ofthe reference(s). Nevertheless, in the interest of expediting prosecution,
Applicants have herein amended independent claims to recite subject matter that i not taught by

any of the cited references, alone or in combination,

Applicants submit that Nursing Times does not cure the deficiencies of Mudaliar and/or
Ida rected herein. Applicants submit that Agasthiyar and Nursing Times combined do not cure

Page 10 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

the deficiencies of Mudaliar and/or Ida recited herein. Thus, the claims are allowable over these

‘combinations of references.

‘The Applicant has herein amended claim 1 to recite subject matter that is not taught or
suggested in Mudaliar and/or Nursing Times or Ida, Agasthiyar and Nursing Times combined,
‘The Applicant notes that this rejection relies on Mudaliar anticipating the subject mater of claim
1 regarding the palm leaf extract. Amended claim 1 clearly indicates that only one ingredient
which is palm leaf extract which includes biophenols, proteins, lipids, sccharides, minerals and

small peptides is needed to treat diabetes disease (see lines 19 -23, paue 7 of orginally filed

specification), These substances are crucial features of the present invention as it contributes anti
diabetic and organ health promoting properties (see lines 25-27, page 8 of the originally filed
specification),

Further, it is clear that Mudaliar teaches about *Avarai Nei” which is a therapeutic
‘composition consists of 31 ingredients (sce page 2 of Mudaliar). Meanwhile, Nursing Times
teaches about clinical procedure involved in administration of medicine in accordance with the
administration method used. Further, it teaches about bioavailability of drug and best
‘administration mode for the drug, However, the present invention is not similar to the prior arts,

it teaches about extraction of palm leaf and the nutraceutical benefits ofthe palm leaf extract
specifically for treating diabetes. Further, the present invention discloses that the composition of
the palm leaf extract in amount of $0-200 mg/kg needs to be administered daily for 15 days to
‘reat diabetes, However, nowhere in both prior arts isthe amount of the extract and duration of
the administration disclosed. As such, its impossible to achieve the present invention’s solution
by combining both prior arts, Notably, Nursing Times does not teach to exclude all ofthe other
ingredients except for palm leaf extract, and thereby the combination of references does not
teach or suggest the present cli

In addition, the amended claim 1 of the present invention includes the transition phrase
“consisting essentially of” In view of the above and disclosure of Mudaliar and Nursing times,
‘we can deduce that, the 31 components and the method of administration of medicine is an
essential feature of the prior arts. However, these components are not needed and excluded from

the composition of the present invention by presence of the transitional phrase “consisting

Page 11 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

‘essentially of” in claim 1. As such, it i evident that the composition of the palm leaf extract of
the present invention is different and it is not possible to arrive at present invention’s solution
‘even though both prior ats are combined

In addition, the Nursing Times does not teach or suggest extraction of palm leaf and the
‘utraceutical benefits ofthe palm leaf extract for treating diabetes. As such, the combination of
‘Mudaliar and Nursing Times does not teach or suggest the present claims for the same reasons
‘Mudaliar does not teach or suggest the present claims. Thus, Nursing Times does not cure the

deficiencies of Mudaliar, As such, Nursing Times i

irrelevant to the present invention as it only
discloses the method of medicine administration whereas the present invention is not limited to
the method of administration of medicine, as it focuses on use of palm extract for diabetes
‘treatment

‘The Examiner rejects claims 1-20 under 3 U.S.C. § 103(a) as unpatentable over Ida in
view of Agasthiyar, in view of Nursing times (The administration of medicines”, Internet
publication date: 2007-11-19).

‘The Examiner has indicated that Ida teaches a method of treating diabetes comprising

administering a methanol or ethanol extract of Phoenix rupicota I

wves and it does not require
‘any additional ingredients. However, Applicants respectfully submit that this assertion is
‘erroneous and nowhere does such a teaching occur in Ida. Meanwhile, Agasthiyar teaches that a
‘composition comprising Phoenix dactyifera stem bark in 10.24 gis effetive in treating diabetes
‘and Nursing times teaches that topical administration is an effective form for locally
administering medication, The Office Action alleges that it would have been obvious to the
Person skilled in art to manipulate palm leaf extract for treating diabetes using topical

administration,

Applicants note that stem bark is not a palm leaf, and thereby the combination is
defective, There is no evidence that the extract of stem bark of one species has the same
‘components or effective uses asthe purified compounds of the leaf ofa different species. Thus,

there is no logical combination or motivation to make such a combination,

Page 12 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

Applicants note that the combination is defective and based on only impermissible
hindsight because there is nological connection toa teaching in la to extract from palm lea and
then purify the extract into a pure compound for use asa cell death inducer and then combine
that reference with a completely different concept of extraction from stem bark to teat diabetes,
‘These references do not have a common nexus and Nursing Times does not cure this deficiency
IF combined, Ida suggests to purify compounds, which necessarily results in something other
than the extract of palm leaf that is presenly claimed. Thus, the combination is based on
impermissible hindsight in an effort to recreate the present invention using the present claims as
‘roadmap.

In view of above, the Applicant has herein provided arguments as stated below that the
present invention is patentable in view of above the objection because the cited prior arts do not
teach the present invention. The present invention teaches a palm leaf extract in a
pharmaceutically effective amount which is about 100 mg/kg for treating diabetes disease (see
lines 12-14, page 10 of originally filed specification). However, none of the above indicated
prior arts disclose that palm leaf extract alone could be used for treating diabetes diseases,
Further, although Agasthiyar discloses 40 ingredients in combination for treatment of ant

diarrhea and semen retaining, the use of Phoenix dactyifera stem bark in 10.24 gin view of Ida
‘not obvious to the person skilled in the art. This is due to the fact that Ida discloses 4 types of
‘components which have different effects, wherein compound 1 is cell death inducer and
‘compounds 2, 3 and 4 are antitumor agent (see lines 0018 and 0022, page 4 of Ida). Therefore, a
shilled artisan will be unable to specifically identify the use of palm leaf extract to treat diabetes
disease and itis not possible to arrive to present invention,

Further, as mentioned earlier the amended claim 1 of the present invention includes the
transition phrase “consisting essentially of” In view of the above and disclosure of Ida,
‘Agasthiyar and Nursing times, we can deduce that, the 4 components of Ida the 40 components
‘of Agasthiyar and the method of administration of medicine are an essent
ats, However, these components are not needed and excluded from the composition of the

feature of the prior

present invention by presence of the transitional phrase “consisting essentially of” in claim 1. As.
‘h itis apparent that th

the palm | f nt inv

Page 13 of 15


‘Application Ne. 1902272 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

ferent and itis not possible to ative at present solution even though the

‘combined,

[As such, itis clear thatthe cited documents do not disclose or render obvious each and
‘every limitation of the amended claims. Thus, the novel and inventive feature of the present
invention lies in overcoming the demerits of the prior arts, and in no way can the present
invention be considered as anticipated or obvious since the invention achieves results which are

learly not possible even ifone was to get motivated by the cited prior arts

‘Therefore, the amendments presented herein, taken as a whole, render the rejections
‘moot. The Applicant noted that portions of the claims other than those specifically amended
and/or mentioned above may contribute to the patentability. In light of the references as now
understood by the Applicant and the amendments made herein, the claims appear to be
allowable. Therefore, the Applicant respectfully requests the Examiner to withdraw the

rejections

Page 14 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Responsive to Office Acton muiedFebmay 27,2017

{ONCLUSION

In view of the foregoing, Applicants submit that the pending claims are allowable. In the
‘event that Examiner finds remaining impediment to a prompt allowance of this application that
may be clarified through a telephone interview or overcome by an Examiner's Amendment,

Examiner is requested to contact the undersigned attorney.

Dated this 10" day of May, 2017,

Respectfully submitted,
‘Monathan M. Benns/

Jonathan M. Benns
Registration No, $3983,
Attorney for Applicant
Customer No. 97149

‘Telephone No. (435)

52-1360

Page 15 of 15


‘Application Ne. 1902272 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Respoasive wo Ofie Acton mid Febray 27,2017

AMENDMENTS TO THE CLAIMS,
‘This listing of claims replaces all prior versions and listings of claims in the application,

1. (Currently Amended) A_method of ‘treating a diabetic subject, the method
‘comprising:

i, providing a composition comprising consisting essentially of a substance having
‘an anti-diabetic property, the substance being palm leaf extract which includes biophenols,
proteins. lipids, saccharides, minerals and small peptides: and
fi, administering the said composition in a pharmaceutically effective amount to the diabetic
serene tenet ntaeenen nena |
diabetes disease imthediabetiesuibjeet

2 (Currently Amended) ‘The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the extract is
derived from leaves of a palm tree species{[.]

4. (Original) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the extract is an aqueous, an
aqueous alcoholic ora polar extract.

5. (Cancelled)
6 (Original) The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a

pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to reduce blood
sugar in the diabetic subject.

Page 2 of 15


‘Application Ne. 1902272 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802

Respoaive OMe Action

ed Febery 27,2017

(Original The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to inhibit diabetic
oxidative stress in the diabetic subject.

(Original) The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract suficient to inhibit diabetic
complications in the diabetic subject

(Original The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to inhibit tissue
degeneration, cardiovascular disease, kidney dysfunction, loss of cognitive function,

‘weight loss, visual impairment, and vasomotor symptoms in the diabetic subject.

(Currently Amended) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the composition
ofthe palm leaf extract is incorporated in an edible ora topical product(f].

(Original) ‘The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the edible or topical product,

comprises of capsules, ointments, lotions and tablets.

(Cancelled)

(Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the palm leat
extract is an alcoholic extract.

(Previously Presented) ‘The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the palm leat
extract is an ethanol extract.

(Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
pharmaceutically effective amount is 50-200 mak.

Page 3 of 15


‘pplication No 1922752 “atomny Docket Nember R107 10010802
Respoaive wo Ole Acton ued Febnaty 27,20

19. (Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the

pharmaceutically effective amount is administered daily for atleast 15 days.

20. (Cancelled)

Page 4 of 1S
