Unrrep Stares Patent AND TRADEMARK QHACE:

[ee ee Te | ca]
‘Mahoft Bromma | = XN
18) Comer Drive, Sit 300 rey

Park City, UT 84058

Please find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding.
‘The time period for reply if any, is set in the attached communication.
Notice of the Office communication was sent electronically on above-indicated

following e-mail address(es):

dock nmb. com
Info mabecom

iotiication Date" t0 the


Appleton Wo. ‘Aepieaniy
loa MERaED eT AL

Office Action Summary Examiner “Aa Ua | Ar
soy ck 155" | fae

Te MAG DATE as ammaneion appears ote cover shel whe caenpondence woss=
Period for Reply
{A SHORTENED STATUTORY PERIOD FOR REPLY 1S SET TO EXPIRE g MONTHS FFOM THE MALING DATE OF
He Serene sano Gra mee Nome pte
‘ey cys as acer marae yy ace
Status
"NE_Rosponsive to communicaton() led on 102017
TA cdoctaraton(saticavi.s) under 37 CFR 1.1306) wainore fd on
2a) This action is FINAL. ‘2b)68] This action is non-final.
IC] An eect was made by th appicant in response 1 a estictonqurermant set forh dung the inerew on
the estcbon requremert an elecion have been corporates it is action
421 Siac his application in condion for lowance excep fr formal mater, prosacuton as tothe mets is
Closed in accordance wih te practice under Exparte Quayle, 1935 C.D. 11, 4530.6. 213.

Disposition of Claims
‘5182 Cains) 1-46.10 and 16-19\8/ar pending inthe appication.
5) One above ciaim(s) __ isare withdrawn from consideration,

60 Giaimis) _ sare alowed
7B) Cals) $-466-10 and 16-19\s/are rejoctoo,
810 Claims) ‘s/are objected to.
90 Ciaims) subject resticton andlor election requcement
“trany claims have boon determined allowable. you may be eligi to bane rom the Patont Prosecution Highway program at
parcating intelectual property ote forthe corresponding appcaton. For mae formation, please see
‘niacin covnatantsintevensinhindes oof send an ngury o PPHieacackustn.ax.
‘Application Papers
10)C2 Te specication objected toby te Examiner,
11101 The crawing(s) fied on _ is/are: a)( accepted or b/L] objected to by ne Examiner.
‘Aepleant may not request that any cbjecton fo the drawings) beheld in abeyance. See 37 CFR .88(
Feplacerert dawn sheet) inclung the corection is required Fhe rawieg(s) i objected io. See 37 CFR 1.121(d
Priority undor 35 US.C. §119
12). Acknowledgments made ofa claim for foreign priory under 85 US.C. § 118(a)() oF)
Catiiod copies:
a)DVAIl b)L) Some o)[] None of the:
1.1 Cortitod copies of he prionty documents nave been recoWved,
210) Centiad copie ofthe prierty documents have been received in Appication No._.
3121 Copies of te carted copes ofthe prity documents have been received in this National Stage
‘appicatio from the international Bureau (PCT Rule 17.2())
~ See the anached detaled Cte ation for ato he ceded copies not eceived.

‘tachment

1B Note of Reneee Cres POS) 2) wsesonSuenary P1043)

201 ntrmaon Decouue Sumer (PTO'SBORs ander PTO'SBOM) Exper nat Dae —
Paper Na }al Ose Dover

Proce ee “oftce Acton Summary ‘Part Paper NaN Oa 0170808


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page 2
‘AetUnit 1655

“The present application ie being examined under the pre-AA rat to vent provaions
DETAILED ACTION
Continued Examination Under 37 CFR 1.114

‘request fx continued examination under 37 CFR 1.114, nclusing te fe eet frtin 37 CFR
1.17(¢), as lod inthis application ater final ejection. Since tis appcation is eibefr continued
‘examination under 37 CFR 1.114, and the fee set oth in 37 CFR 1.17) has been timely pd, he
{nai of he provious Otloe action has been withérawn pursuantt0 37 CFAL1.1%4. Applicant's
submission tod on 5/10/2017 has been ented

Claims 1-4, 611 and 16-19 are currently under examination.

“Mudalar teaches a composition comprising cocos nucifera leaf decoction obtained by combining
cocos nucifera leaves with water (which reads on aqueous extract for eating diabetes and tat the
‘composition is frst formulated and is then orally administered (please note that Applicants claim

(RR 0°

‘paragraph 0021 of the PGPUBY' and “Another embadimant ofthe resent invention Involves a comestibe

‘andlor: opical composition wih anti-diabetic property comprising aloohovaqueous extracts derived tom
traction solvent (See paragraph 0027 of ho

betes Pena tami nr
POPURY. Throat mary renee ane rg 70 a sae Pa he


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Although Mudaliar does not teach that th

tract incudes biophencls, proteins, ipis,
‘sacchwides, minerals and small peptides, thatthe extract reduces blood sugar, inhibits oxidative sees,
innidits sabete complications oF thatthe extract inhibits specie complications in Babetc patents, the
Claimed functional properties are inherent to the extract taught by Mudalia because the ingredients, the
‘amounts ofthe ingredients, andthe route of administration forthe delivery of the ingrecnts taught by
Mudaliar are ane and the same as discosedin the instantly claimed invention of Applicant. Thus, the
‘exract taught by Mudalar inherently has the same properties as claimed by Applicant.

‘Therefore, the reference anticipates the instanty claimed invention.

Cain Rejections -35 USC § 103,

Claims 1-4, 61 and 16-12 romain rejacted under pro-AIA 35 U.S.C. 103(a) as boing
unpatotabe over Muda (U") ln viw of ‘Nursing times”)

“The teachings of Mudalar are sofort above and applied as before.

Mudalar does nt teach topical appication ofthe compositon.

“Nursing tes" teaches thatthe frm of administration ofa drug based upon re Boavalabity
ofthe hug and most elec route of adminstraton. Nursing times" teaches that topical administration
's an etectiv form or ocaly administering mediation

!t would have been cbvious to mast the method by which the campeston the comasion is
‘aminstred because atthe me the invention was made, itwas known that @ compositon comprising
0208 ruc leat decoction sete for weating diabetes and that medication can be ether ovaly or
topically adnisteed as cleat taught by the above reterences,

‘Thus. an artisan of enary shi woud reasonably expect tat opcally applying a composition
‘comprising cocosnuctera let decoction woul be more elective fr treating diabetes and symptoms of
clavetos by locally administering te medieaton othe desired st. Ths reasonatlo expectaton ot

‘vccoss would motivate th

isan to use a composition comprising cocos nucifera oat decoction is

‘ttoctive for teating diabetes for teating diabetes and is symptoms by localy administering ho
{ormulason based upon the beneficial teachings of the above eterences,


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page
‘AetUnit 1655

‘The resutetfectve adjustment of particular conventonal working condition (©. deterring
{he most effective way to administr medication toa person in need) is doomed mavoly a mater of
{judicious selection and routine optimization which is wed within the purvow of he silos artisan,

‘Based upon the beneficial teachings ofthe cited reterences, the sil of one of ordinary skin the
{art and absent evidence tothe contrary, there would have been

reasonable oxpectaton of success to
‘ult inthe claimed invention.

‘Accordingly, the claimed invention was prima faci cbvious to one of ordinary ski in he art atthe
time the invention was made, especialy in the absence of evdence tothe contrary.

Claims 1-4, 6-11 and 16-19 slare rejected under pre-AIA 35 USC. 103(a) as boing unpatentable
‘over Greitonstvin (0, translaton provided heroin)

Greenstein teaches a medicament for treating diabetes (See paragraph 0028 and abstract)
‘comprsing an extact of coces nucifera (See paragraph 0006 and abstract), wherein the cocos nuctera
‘extact canbe from the leaves of cocos nuctera (See paragraph 0008) and can be extracted wih ethanol
‘or ethanol and water (See paragragh 0016). Gretfensteinfurher teaches thatthe medicament can be in
the form ofa tablet, dragee, suppostory or crops (See paragraph 0010). Grfensteinfurtner teaches that
the cocos nucilera extract can be administered in an amount of rom 10% by weight to 20% by weight in
‘addition to customary caries, substances, auxiliaries and/or adelives (See paragraph 0020\please nota
that Applicants claim language ‘consisting essentially of” is being constued as open ciaim language
‘because Applicants originally fled specticaton does not provide expict or imps support forthe
language “consisting essentialy of Applicant's orginally fed specication discloses “Atleast one ofthe
‘Preceding objects
‘the present invention a composition wi ant-diabetic property comarising aqueous or alcohobe extract
{tom palm lea (See paragraph 0021 of the PGPUBY’ and “Another embodiment ofthe present invention
‘volves a comastibie ands topical composition with ant-ciabatc rope compdsing alcoholaquacus

‘extracts dove from the leaves of Palma family using an appropeat

‘et, in whole orn part by the present invention, in which one ofthe embodiment of

traction solvent (See paragraph


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Pages
‘AetUnit 1655

(0027 ofthe PGPUBY’. There are many other passages that use the same language but no ther
Indications thatthe only active ingredion isthe extract itso as part of a composition.
[Atnough Grofonstein does not expressly teach that te extract includos biophenols, protein

lids, saccharides, minerals and smal paptdes, thatthe extract reduces blood supa, inhibits oxicave
‘058, inhibits diabetic campscations or thatthe extract inhibts specie complications in dabtic patos,
the claimed functional properties ae inherent to the extract aught by Greferstein because he
Ingredients, to amounts ofthe ingradints, and tho rou of administra fc the delivery of ha
‘ngrodonts taught by Gcofonstein aro one ar the same as cclosd in the instantly csimad invention af
‘Asplicant. Ths, th extact aught by Gens inherent has tho same propedios as claimed by
‘pliant

It would havo been cbvious to use 00008 musa faves asthe source materalfr ethanol or
‘aqueous ethanol exracon and to administer the extract toa subject wih diabetes because a the ime
the vention was made it was known that cocos nuit lea coud be extracted wih ethanol or aqueous
‘emanolfr treating dlabotes as Geary taught by Grinstein.

‘Thus. an artisan of inary sil woud reasonably expect Pat using cocos nucter leaves
‘exacted wih ethanol or aqueous ethanol would be etective for teating dlabetes. This reasonable
‘expectation of success would motvate the artisan to use cooos nusfora leaves and to extractthe cocos
‘uate leaves win ethanol or aqueous etancl fr eating tabetes and its symptoms based upon the
benef teachings of Gretensten

Moreover. would have been merely a matter of judicious selection to one of ordinary skin the
{arta the time the invention was made to modly the relerenced compositon because it would have been
\wellin he purview of one of ranary sk inte at practcing the inventon to pck and choose an amount
‘ofan extract of cocos mciloa leat extrac to administer to a abet subject to eat lates. Thus, the
‘aimed invention is no more han the routine optimization of ares etect vriabie.

‘8asod upon the bona teachings ofthe te raterences, the si of one a xdnary si in tho
‘a ang abeontevonco tothe contrary, there would have been

reasonable expectation of succass to

‘0aultin the claimed invention,


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Pages
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Accordingly, the claimed inversion was prima facie obvious to one of ordinary ski inthe arta he

tine the invention was made, especialy inthe absence af venice to the contrary.

Response to Arguments
‘Applicants arguments have been luly considered but hey are not persuasive,
‘Applicant argues that Appicant has amended te claims to prectude additonal ingreients that
‘are active fom being pat ofthe formulation and that Mudalak teaches formulation containing many

‘ngcodonts rat ao usd for vaating cabot an tat tere no evidence that ho palm loa! extracts
‘fective in reating dabetes. Applcant further argues tat Mudala requires much more than just
substance having an antiiabeic property. Applicant futher argues that there is no evidence that
_acminstoring palm eat extract wilhave te instantly lamas elects of reducing bood sugar, nhiit

diabetic oxicatve suess, diabetic complications or the cfseases of claim 9

tare everrern tr eeenstomttsety rere ment

specication discloses “A least one ofthe preceding obec met. in whole on part. by the present
‘nventon, la which one ofthe embodiment of he present invention a. composton wih ant-csbetc

open omorising aqueous o lcohokc exact om palm eat (See paragraph OC21 of the PGPUB)"

‘and Another embodiment o he present invention involves .comestibe nor nal compasiion wth
sctsiabotc ropety comoving sleohovaqueous extracts dered tom the leaves of Palmae family

using an appropriate exraction soWvent (See paragraph 0027 of he PGPUBY. There are many ther
passages hat use the same language but no othe nations that fhe only active ingredient the extract
‘seas prt ot a composition. Mudalar clearly teaches tata compostion comprising a wate exvactot
cocoe nctera eae eiectve at weatng cabets. Therefore, administering he formation of Muda
Wr the erat of coco cara lat would bo expected to oom Heat ctabaee and |


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page?
‘AetUnt 1655

No claims ate allowed.

‘Any inquiry concerning this communication or earlier communications from the examiner should
be directed to Amy L. Ciark whose telephone number is (571)272-1910. The examiner can normally be
‘reached on Monday to Friday 7 am to 830 pm

Examiner

terviews are avalabe via telephone, in-person. anc deo conferencing using a
USPTO supa web-based colaboraton tal. To schedule an intrview, applcant's encouraged to use
the USPTO Automated interiaw Request (AIR) atitpuimwn. ust. gowinteriewpract,

It anempts to reach he examine by telephone are unsuccesst the examiners supervisor
“Temry McKelvey can be reached on(571)272.0775. The fax phone number forthe organization where
this application or pxooseding Is assigned is 671-278-630.

Information regarding the status ofan application maybe cbained Ham the Patent Application
Information Retival (PAIR) system. Status information for published applications may be obtained from
‘ter Pivate PAIR or Puble PAIR. Stats information for unpublished applications is evalabe though
Private PAIR only. For moe information about the PAIR system, see htpipak-drec upto gov. Shouts
you have question on access tothe Private PAIR system, contact the Electronic Business Center (EBC)
181866-217-0197 (oll-ton),H you would ko assistance kom a USPTO Customer Service Roprosentatve
© ac2098 tothe automated information syste, cal 800-786-9109 (IN USA OR CANADA) 01 571-272
1000,


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page 8
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Any Llane
Primary Examiner, Art Unit 1655
