Sf epee

Tne Application of

For

PATENT
IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE,

GOKARAJU et a.
ANTI-ADIPOGENIC

COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING
PIPER BETLE AND DOLICHOS
BIFLORUS:

Serial No. 12679,826

Filed March 24, 2010

Art Unit 1655

Examiner ‘Amy Lynn CLARK

Att, Docket LIX 9027

Confirmation No. 9829

AMENDMENT APTER FINAL

Mail Stop Amondment
Commissioner for Patents
P.O. Box 1450

Aloxandsia, VA 22813-1450

Sir

In response to the Offico Action dated April 26, 2012, plense amend the
above-identified application as set forth below.

CLAIM AMENDMENTS bogis on page 2 of this paper.
REMARKS/ARGUMENTS boxin on pnw 14 ofthis paper.


Application No: 121679,826
Kramer & Amado Doo Ux 3027

(CLAIM AMENDMENTS

will replace all prior versions and listings ofelnims in

‘This listing of clain

the application.
Listing of Claims

1-22, (Cancelled)

23, (Currently amended _Antisadipogonic herbal compositions for

iil


“Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

24. (Currently amended) ‘Tho anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 58, wherein tho effective amount of said Piper betlo extract in the

compositions is in the range of 1% to 99% by weight.

25, (Previously presented) The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 58, wherein the composition comprises Piper betle extract in the range of 1%
99% by weight and Dolichos biflarus extract in the range of from greater than 0% to

70% by weight.

26. (Previously presented) Anti-adipogenic herbal compositions according to
claim 23,
wherein the composition comprises Piper betle extract in the range of 40% -

(60% by weight and Dolichos biflarus extract in the range of 40% - 60% by weight.

27. (Currently amended) _Antiradipogenic herbal compositions for inhibiting
or preventing or amcliorating disease conditions associated with adipogenesis in
vmmals, consisting essentially of eompreing:

aan effective amount of a Piper betle extract, wherein the Piper hetle extract is
obtained by extraction of Piper betle with a solvent selected from the group
consisting of water, a polar organic solvent, and mixtures thereof

optionally an effective amount of  Dolichos biflarus extract, wherein the

Dolichos biflorus extract is obtained by extraction of Dolichos hifforus with a
3


Application No: 12/679.526
Kamer & Amato Docket No: LIX 3027

solvent selected from tho group consisting of wator,

polar organic solvent, and
mixtures thereof
optionally in combination with nt loust one biologically acooptable excipient
wherein the suid Piper betle extract farther comprises one or more anti
adipogenic or anti-obesic ugunts veloctod from the group consisting of extracts of
Commiphora mukul, Boorhavia diffusa, Tribulus terrestris, and Zingiber officinule,
and mixtures thereof: and

“optionally contains # biorenhancing agent or a bio-protecting agent.

28. (Previously Presented) Tho antivadipogenic compositions as in claim 27,
wherein the composition comprises extracts of Pipor betle, Commiphora mukul,

Boerhavia diffusa, Tribulus terrestris, Zingibor officinale along with suid bio

‘enhancing agent, whorein said biownhancing agent comprisce an extruct of Piper

nigrum.

29. (Previously Presented) ‘The antiradipogenic compositions as in elaim 27,
wherein the composition comprises Pipor betle extruct in the range of 10-40%,
Commiphora mukul extract in the range of 10-40%, Bocrhavia diffusa extract in the
range of 10-40%, Tribulus terrestris extract in the range of 10-40%, Zingiber
officinale extract in the range of 10 - 40% and said extract of Piper nigrum in the

range of 10-40%.



Application No: 12/679,826

Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027
30, (Previously Presented) The anti-adipogenic compositions as in claim 27,
wherein the said compositions optionally comprise anti-adipogenic or anti-obese
agents selected from the group consisting of an Holoptelia integrifolia extract, @
Garcinia cambogia extract, a green ton extract, a green coffee bean extract, an
‘eucalyptus plant extract, a bitter orange (Citrus aurantium) extract, Conjugated
linoleic acid, a Hoodia Gordonii extract, an Allium sativum extract, chromium (IL)
complexes, DHEA, and 7-Keto-DHEA.

81. (Currently amended) ‘The antivadipogenic compositions us claimed in

claim 27, wheroin said extracts ar fo

ulated optionally with biologically
accuptable excipionts into specific dosage forms selectod from the group consisting of

nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals, and dietary forms.

32 (Currently umended) ‘The antivudipogenie compositions as in claim 27,
whorein said compositions further comprise an effective umount of at least one
pharmaceutically or nutritionally or dietetically acceptable antioxidant, adaptogen,
antirinflammatory agent, anti-diabetic agent, bio-protoctant, trace metals or

:nixture thereof to form a formulation,


Application No: 121679,826
‘Kramer & Amido Docket No: LIX 3027

83. . (Currently amended "The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 27, wherein said composition is in a pharmacoutically or nutracoutically
‘suitable form for oral administration, said pharmaceutically or nutraceutically

suitable form being

lected from the group consisting of tablets, soft capsules, hard

capsules, pills, granules, powders, emulsions, suspensions, syrups, and pellets.

34, (Previously Presented) ‘The entivadipogonic compositions as eluimed in
claim 31, wherein tho pharmaceutically or nutraceutically suitable form is suitable
for parenteral administration selected from the group consisting of injections, drops,

‘and suppositories

85. (Currently amended) ‘The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in

claim 27, wherein eaid compositions are in the form of a dietary formulation.

36. (Previously Presented) A dosage form comprising a composition of claim 28

and a sufficient amount of an excipient.

87. Canceled)

38 (Canceled)



Application No: 12/679 826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

39, (Previously Presented) The antivadipogonic composition as claimed in
claim 28, wherein said composition further comprises @ pharmaceutically or

sutracoutically or diototically or veterinary acceptable additive, wherein che said

additive is u binder, diluent, antioxidant or a lubricant.

40, (Currently amondod) Tho anti-adipogonic compositions as claimed in
claim 23, wherein a source of the Piper betle extract is a plant part selected from
the group consisting of leaf, sced, trunk, root and combinations thereof and

a source of the Dolichos biflorus extract is a plant part selected from the

ssroup consisting of leaf, seed, trunk, root and combinations thereof.

41, (Currently amended) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 28, wherein the Piper betle extract and the Dolichos biflorus extract axe
derived by extraction from plant parts with a solvent selected from the group
consisting of wator, a polar organie solvent, and a mixture thereof, wherein the
solvent used for extraction of the plant parts is selocted from the group consisting of
‘methanol, othanol, propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, isobutanol, see-butanol, tert-
Dutanol, dimethyl ketone, methyl ethyl kotone, seotone, methyl isobutyl ketone,

water and mixtures thereof,



Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

42, (Withdrawn) A_—mothod for inhibiting adipogenesis and fat
accumulation in a mammal, comprising administering to a said mammal an

effective amount of & composition as claimed in claim 28, as a dietary or

nutracoutical or pharmaceutical composition,

45, (Withdrawn) A method for inhibiting or proventing or treating

adipogenesis mediated diseases in a mammal comprising administering to a said

mammal an effective amount of a composition as elaimed in claim 28,

44, (Withdrawn) A woight controlling treatment regimen, comprising
administering the anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in claim 23, wherein the
compositions are administered either before meals or as a meal replacement as a

part of an overall weight control plan,

45. (Previously Presented) The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in

claim 23, wherein the said compositions optionally comprise anti-adipogenic or an

‘obese agents selected frum the group consisting of an Holoptelia integritalia
extract, a Garcinia cambogia extract, a green tea extract, a groen cofiee bean
extract, a eucalyptus plant extract, a bitter orange (Citrus aurantium) extract,

Conjugated linoleic aci

|, a Hood gordonii extract, an Allium sativum extract,

chromium (IID complexes, DHEA, and 7-KetoDHEA.



Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

46. (Currently amended) ‘The untivadipogenic compositions as claimed in

claim 29, wherein said extracts are formulated with biologically acceptable

excipients into specific dosnge forms, said dosage forms boing selected from the

group consisting of nutracouticals, pharmaceuticals, or dietary forms.

47. Previously Presented) ‘The antivudipogenic compositions as claimed in

claim 32, wherein said bio-protectant is Curcuma longa.

48 (Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 27, wherein said compositions arw in the form of a dietary formulation
selected from the group consisting of chocolate bars, nutritional bars, erewns, jams,
gels, boverages selected from the group consisting of coffe, teu, a mill-containing
Devorage, a lactic acid bacteria-containing bevorage, drops, candios, chewing gums,
chocolates, gummy candies, yoghurt, ice cream, puddings, soft adzuki-bean jellies,

jellies, and evokies.

49. (Previously Presented) A pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form
comprising a composition of claim 23, further comprising a sufficient amount of a

pharmaceutically acceptable excipient,

50. (Canceled)



Application No: 121679,826
‘Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

51. (Canceled)

52, (Withdrawn) A mothod for inhibiting or preventing or treating
dipogenosis modinted disonsos in a mammal comprising administering to a suid
med in ela

mammal an effective amount of w composition 23,

53. (Withdrawn) A’ method for inhibiting adipogenesis and fat
accumulation in a mammal, comprising administering to a said mammal an
effective amount of @ composition as claimed in claim 23, as a dictary or

nutracoutical or pharmucoutical composition,

54. (Withdrawn) A method for inhibiting or provonting or treating
radipogenosis medinted diseases in a mammal comprising administering to a said

‘mammal an effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 26.

55, (Withdyawn) The mothod according to claim 64, whervin said

dipogenosis mediated diseases are obesity, excess body weight, fat accumulation,

or a combination thereof.

56. (canceled)

=10-


Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

57. (Previously Presented) The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in

im 23, wherein said compositions are in the form of « dietary formulation
selected from the group consisting of chocolate bars, nutritional bars, creams, jams,
sol, Doverages selected from the group consisting of coffo, tea, « milk-containing
bovarage, a lactic acid bactoria-containing beverage, drops, candies, chewing gums,
chocolates, gummy candies, yoghurt, ico cream, puddings, soft adzuki-bean jollis,

jellies, and cookies.

58. (Previously presented) An antiradipogenic herbal composition for
inhibiting disease conditions associated with adipogenesis in mammals, comprising!

an effective amount of a Piper botle extract, wherein the Piper betle extract is
obtained by extruction of Piper betle with water or & polar organic solvent or a
mixture thereof

an effective amount of a Dolichos bifforus extract, wheroin the Dolichos
bifforas extract is obtained by oxtraction of Dolichos bifforus with water or a polar
organic solvent or a mixture thereof; and

‘an optional biologically acceptable excipients

wherein said Piper betle extract and said Dolichos bifforus extract aro the

only herbal ingredients present in suid antivadipogenie herbal composition.


Application No: 121679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

59. (Currently amended) An anti-adipogenic herbal composition for
Inhibiting disease conditions associated with adipogenesis in mammals, consisting
cssontially of eomprising a first herbal component and an optional biologically
acceptable excipients

said frst herbal component comprising an effective amount of Piper betle
extract obtained by extraction of Piper botle with at least ono polar organic sslvont

i organic solvent and water, water-or-e polar organic

celvont or wmixturethoroof and an effective amount of Dolchosbiflorusextrust
obtained by oxtenction of Dolichos ifforus with atleast ano polar organic solvent ot
acombination ofa polar organic solvent and water water-or-e-polar organie-selvent

whorein said first herbal component is prepared by a process consisting

essontially of mixing said Piper betle oxtenct and suid Dolichos bifforus extract.

60. (Previously presentod) ‘The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 23, further comprising a second herbal component selected from the group
consisting of an Holoptelia integrifolia extract, a Garcinia cambogia extract, @
green tea extract, a green coffee bean extract, a eucalyptus plant extruct, a bitter
orange (Citrus aurantium) extract, a Hoodia gordonii extract, an Allium sativam

extenet, and mixtures theraof.

2.


Application No: 121679,825
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

61. (Currently amended) ‘The untiradipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 23, wherein:

the Piper betic extract is obtained by extraction of Piper betle with wateror
cither @ atleast one C1-C4 alcohol or-a-mixtwre-shereof, or n mixtuxe of water and
‘atleast one C1-C4 wleohol: and

the Dolichos bifforus oxtract is obtuined by extraction of Dolichos biflorus

with wateror either @ at Jonst one C1-C4 alcohol or a-mintne-thowof, orp mixtre

we C4

62, (Previously presented) ‘The anticadipogenic compositions us claimed in
claim 28, wherein:

the Piper betle extract is obtained by extraction of Piper betle leaves: and

the Dolichos biflorus extract is obtained by extraction of Dolichas biflorus

Teaves,

63. (Currently amended) ‘The antivadipoyenic compositions as claimed in

claim 23, wherein’

hw Piper botle oxtract ix obtained by extraction of Piper betlo leaves with
water-or oither @ at least one C1-C4 alcohol oma-mixture-thereof_or a mixture of
water and at least one C1-C4 aleohol; and

“13.


Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

the Dolichos biflorus extract is obtained by extraction of Dolichos bifforus
leaves with water-or oither a at least one C1-C4 alcohol ore-mixture-thereol, ora
mixture of water and at Jenst one Ci-C4 alcohol

“14


Application No: 121679,826
Kramer d& Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

REMARKS/ARGUMENTS
Claims 23°63 are pending in this application, By this Amendmont, claims 61
63 are added: claims 23-24, 26-27, 30°33, 85, 36, 40-41, 48 and 58:59 are amended

and claims 37-38, 60-51 and 56 are canceled, Claims 42-44 and 62:55 have been

withdrawn, Claims 61-63 are added.

REJECTIONS UNDER 35 U.S.C. 102

‘extraction WoIWeH, Haogepathya doos not show extraction solvents other than

water, Accordingly, claims 23 and 57 and their dependent claims are allowable

over Hérogopathya,


‘Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

Claim 27 has boon amended to change “comprising” to “consisting essentially
of The transitional phrase “consisting essentially of" limits the scope of a claim to
the specified materials or stops “and those that do not materially affect the basic
and novel characteristic(s)" of the claimed invention. Jn re Herz, 587 F.2d 549, 561°
52, (CCPA 1976). The claimed composition is an herbal composition. Hrogopathya
roquires non-herbal ingredients, such as meat juices from animals and birds, as
ingredients. Meat juices are obtained from animal sourcos, and not herbal sources.
‘The current disclosure consistently refers to the composition as an horbal
composition, and does not describe the use of unimalderived compononts,
Accordingly, meat juices aro not encompassed by the language “consisting
essentially of,” as upplied to a herbal composition.

Claims 23-36, 39-41, 45-49, 57 and 59-61 were rejected under 35 US.C.
103(a) as being unpatentable over Hérogepathya (V), in view of “WorldHealth.net
‘Tribulus Terrestris” (W), Oudhia (0, and Sharma and/or Mohanty, However,
"WorldHenith.net Tribulus Terrestria” (W), Ovdhia CO, and Sharma andlor
Mohanty wore relied upon to teach specific herbal ingredients other than Dolichos
biflorus and Piper betle, which are not recited by Hdrogepathya. ‘Those references
do not overcome the deficiency in Hdrogepathya, as they do not show preparation of
extracts of Dolichos biflorus and Piper betle using solvents other than water.
Additionally, they fail to provide any motivation to remove non-herbal ingredients

from Hdrogepathya.
<16-


Application No: 121679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

Claims 28:26, 40, 41,46,49,57,59, and 61°63 were rejected under 35 U.S.C.
103(a) as being unpatontable over Arambewela ot al., in view of the TKDL reference
Dawa E-Kulthi Barao Ziyabitus. The Examiner argues that Arambowela teaches
‘that aqueous and ethanol extracts of leaves of Piper betel have antidiabetic activity
‘and can be administered orally. Dawa E-Kulthi Barae Ziyabitus teaches a decoction
of the whole plant of Dolichos biflorus for treating diabetes. ‘The Examinor argues
that it would have been obvious to combine these references since both are useful
for treating dinbetes. Howover, decoction is understood to be a method of extraction,
by boiling, of herbal or plant material, Decoetion involves first mashing, and then
boiling in water to extract organic substances, Accordingly, the decoction of Dawa
E-Kulthi Barue Ziyabitus is a water extract, Dawa E-Kulthi Barae Ziyabitus does
not teach or suggest uso of a polar organic solvent or a mixture of water and a polar
organic solvent as an extraction solvent.

Additionally, Dawa E-Kulthi Barae Ziyabitus does not provide an amount of

Dalichos biflorus as an active ingredient, merely reciting an amount ofa." Dawa
E-Kulthi Barae Ziyabitus is silent as tothe concentration of active ingredient in the
Aecvetion, oF the amount of decoction inthe composition, ‘Therefor, since Davra E
Kulthi Barao Ziyabitus doos not teach how much of the active ingredient Doichos

Difforus is prosent in the composition, Dawa E-Kulthi Barae Ziyabitus is not an

enabling reference, ‘There is no teaching or suggestion as to an amount of Dolichos

Diflorus which is offective in the treatmont of diabetes, Accordingly,
“IT

person of



Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

ondinary skill in the art would have been unable to combine Avambewela et al. and
tho TEDL rference Dawa E-Kulthi Bara Ziyabitus to produce an effective
‘composition in the absence of undue experimentation as to amounts of Dolichos
bidorus

Claims 28-26, 40, 41,46,49 and 57-61 were zojocted under 35 U.S.C. 103(a) as
boing unpatontable over Arambewela etal, in view of Noclakantan (US 5916567)

Neclakantan teaches an anti-diabetic therapeutic product containing
powdered Dolichos biflorus seeds in an amount of from 89.5-08.5% powdered inner
soed and 1.5-10.% powdered outer shell of Dolichos biflorus seeds, ‘The composition
of Neolakantan does not include a solvent extract, as recited in the current claims,
‘The composition of Neclakantan contains fibors, where “dhe fibors of the mixture
rakes a shoath in the intostine to soduow the absorption of the carbohydrates and
natural insulin into the biood stream.” A solvent extrnct does not include Sibers,

and is unable to function in the

sno manner as the powdered seeds of
Neclakantan, The Examiner makes the argument ehat tho combination of an
aquoous or ethanol extract of Piper betel leaves with Dolichos bifforus wowld
provide an aqueous or ethanol extract of Dolichos biflorus. Accordingly, the
Examiner is not relying on the composition of Neelakantan itself, but a hypothetical
composition obtained by extraction of the composition of Nellakantan with a

solvent.

oie


(619.826
Lx 3027

However, even if this combination did provide a solvent extract of Dolichos
Diflorus, the resulting solvent extract would not include fibers from the powdered
‘Dolichos hiflorys seeds of Noclakantan. Since Neelakentan teaches that these
fibors aro roquired to “makell a shoath in the intestine to reduce the absorption of
the carbohydrates and natural insulin into the blood stream,” the loss of those
fibers by solvent extraction of the composition of Neclakantan would render the
composition of Neelakantan ineffctive for ite stated purpose. If » proposed
modification would render the prior art invention being modified unsatisfactory fr
its intended purpose, thon thore is no suggestion or motivation to make the
proposed modification. In re Gordon, 783 F.2a 900, 221 USPQ 1125 (Fod. Cir. 1984)

Further, the Examiner agreed in an interview dated December 21, 2011, that

the powdered Dolichos biflorus scods of Neolakantan are not obtained by solvent
oxtraction, The Examiner agrood in the interviow that amendment of the claims to
specify x Dolichos biflorus extract obtained by extraction with a solvent would

overcome a rejection using Neelakantan as a reference.

-19


Application No: 12/679,826
Kramer & Amado Docket No: LIX 3027

‘CONCLUSION

While we believe that the instant amendment places the application in
condition for allowance, should the Examiner have any further comments or
‘suggestions, it is respectfully requested that the Examinor telephone the
undersigned attorney in order to expeditiously resolve any outstanding issues.

In the event that the fees submitted prove to be insulficient in connection

with the filing of this paper, please charge our Deposit Account Number 50+

‘and please credit any excess fees to such Deposit Account.

Respectfully submitted
‘Knauer & AMADO, P.C.

Date: _ June 26, 2012
‘RilirM. Amado
Rogistration No,’ 51,399

KRAMER & AMADO, P.C,
1725 Duke Street, Suite 240
Alexandria, VA 22314
Phone: 703-519-9801

Fax! 703°619-9802

-%-
