10

6

Jo =Ac ethos tha—teenimennfrancosiisa-9— pation noni
onsiesboete: she pase therapenticatls eHeetive aimee hte as
Lan amhuesenesite,-—-prmanthoeyanidin oom estract-ommprining-ot-lewst

SAO A ar-aneyonootds oF 4 peMaRtbOeyaMiMin Ge ttre of otto

-——Fhe-methiod of ula bo seheren thes enteaot bs ively
venltooe Kis vinden

8 the netint ot lain te-tartier—comprinieg—-omnininteng
harapeutigally ¢towtivs emount Fat betat one ofan mali aan otors aeenh
‘oamsanonnadatating- 2p9—ansxenie-omtinntersbial apant ow sntitivn| mownte

Thre aneshwd 0F--olainn—3-—aehwnsin-—the—aati-ietfammatons ont
sroaewneulatinns ootomt-or analgesie comprinets oi anurmzvapiolles 6 a
ee ee ee
Snthetc-nelonare thereto parttenotie-o 0 natin an-npthett= skin
sheeot —n-ommropiorin—ne—ae—aatunal—or—enthotie uatiigie thant
eushuyomide-06 0 ooksnosatamaied: Fatty wei a aes extevet oh-featbevey tie
Iontccunuseotfelriniece anqistotatio

55 He rvethiod o-eloion-ic whersin- she antinmeredal ages

oF a teal

Thve-mattont ot cin 4 avhenain-the-snkimiorobint-wgent-osuniitinpyt
nseut-comprives-anesmavote, an antibiaie-#-benrotinai i so sinobine
sIhalond— oe —antenet—eomnpriaing—mconreler—a—bencoforsni a-ak
angonaline alot ~

1. he metho of clvien 3. wherea-the-omimhorobiok agent op antifieak

nee

npeises a benraphemsarhridine wikalobh-arae eines cnavotisine
Irene venaateane Akash

the

Lo hve scanhensia the wntimicrebind svent-or-antitianged


2
‘ipont-comprines-sunudnarine-r-a-watutah-ar—spetiokin—analepre bere
ieteryhnine-aee-netorak ee ayathavie-anangte:dhoveot tbtanans
aura or <snthesie analogue ereoF eupewutcnid or aban
logue thereor-on-en-entraak oF anginari canlenln Naciem

5 Mecleanermienve
Fhe method oF-elainy-}-wlerein the therapeutically offeetive see
Aen feus ne anthosananide- prownthoeyariin rest iy aon 58 5 40
shout $n par wie dose
16 The meta -9¢ clan f-ivhecein-thecharapemtills festive anit of

10. the wt feos saw amtbursaneside, peamtheayaniin cr esate win
or te peeing: .

He Wie metho oF onion wherein the therapeutically oFletiee anon
heat deust ane-aathaesencside-promotheayonidin of extroct ix mbminisned ta
fi oes ens atemme eens ston

1512. ~The metho of aba teathoretn the tiatepsoicalls-otfetive aman ob
teat feast one shes de proanthoeyeniain or enact i-adnoa sic 9 (9
1 poet bpmcab oe topic odvisrato
13.—Thewmethed-of elaiae 3-whersin the thecapoutionlly-ofTeative amet of
the satimiesobiat-agent othe aosifangal-agent-is alsin stored tote polaeut

20 br-sysiemieaduninisicotion:
[S-- 1h method oF olaiee-Zevhevoin dhe therapeutically: oFieative ann! of
the ootnicrobialagaes-orshe-amtiiangel apon bs administered 19 she puriont

by ocak or opivabanhnnisination,
IS the awethoed of tates shesuimahesmetied carp oee sien ona
25. phovnaccutivol composition—comorising (1 the teiwetieay
mouto he-atast-e-auuhauyanosile, se vouooray ids or exdnes t aed
Vo the method oF ein 15. shetein the phaonacentions smsetion 144



10

15

43 —she-method of bane -Heanhorsin-the phormseaubiet composition tb
he formof « tables ond coe therapautioally stfective-einowatoF dicot feast oe
unthoeyamonide, prosotheyantden or extract ip contained in ee tie-in
potent obo temgte abut 90 2 pot tablet

18 —The trcthent of lala teamhersin-se pharmaceutical compasttion +n
he form os tablet ood the tahiet Barter emaprivert terpentioally theese
‘og taba 18 one per tablat

1DeThe method oF olatiy 1S, whierein the pharmaseutioa composition i
form of o-abooe eon tablet ond-the-estenet Cummprions ay oxiast ot
Hocetahu-myrtilas and svetein-the-pharmaecstioal-composivion- Hw hee
_coaproses oo soning. olaehd-esictcd invot Sunguinerta-eamndonny,
Mecbetrer-cenlak oe Maslamienoearpnt ets Hinapintie-entaet a
Zan sony an buenas,

pasiean's gastrosnierio-tgte

Ah —the metho ot eiaim-tahersnn-the-aueostis cece 4n the paints
meth esaphasers shanech-sntestine: cola revengn-oF shan

22 Mhecmetiod ot elnimnchs snherein the otis epee tn the patient
voy

23, Phe metinada-oloine | wherein the petient hese concer:

24. =e snethadlo: olainy I stvercin the maconitis egeure in cennestiow with
ae ndhvinkarian 0 eshemedheraps ots aio eng da the paient

18 The peivon s obsane bs sehorein de mivenitn eee iy senmestin ih
the vdeninistrotion- of» ehemothermpy:-compriving-the-adininiiration oon
sthcaeyetines-Havewecest-gnclitexeh-retinomyeinc-amitheamyein:stapeside,


0

18

4
{epoteoencomsaerine: metiotesler iy deorgiirer ow platininrsomptes
2l—Fhe-medhod-oF elot-te-whervin the shermpvtieaily Heine oman
Ai patient bofore he-puiient recaivesa chemother:

2y--Phe-wethod-oF alain whersin-the shenapoutioais-etfootine- omen of
Ae at Jevst one anthooyanoside, proamtnooyanids 6 eoiees 4 eeministoosh
Ave patient wit the pation’ covevwrsn chemother

28 The method of-elain-ir-vhersinthe therapeutical etlautive-omonniof
ie scent ene anthuoanesiles proursnaesanilin of estnet eaters bs
the pasdent-ater the patient reecives a chemother

‘te patent sn-the-mnothod-furlior-compeines-adstnintring-e-theraooihully
efieetve--emount fa henrophanantividine-lvidk—-e-—benenioeny
Anpertorin or enaneiogue-herevirore Audroghicine-oron-analogwethoreuk
30-—-mthod-For-the-prevontion- oF muwenitis-ia-«—petiont-eomeprinine
nisring- to the patiens-otherapestially-eHeetive-oncant oF a fon!
oF an-anihccyamosiie-a-proaoihneyonidin or 0 evitnt composi 9 foes
one-oF--an-autoosanoside-oe-s- proanthoeysnivin or ne preveniion-of
wwii,

31. —The mathod- oF alain 30, herein theentrac-irderived-rom Kaccininet
inven Bie vinifore

32—Fhe- method-oF chin 30. finther- eowopcisine

therapetieally effective sont OF at east one-aF an anti-iniionaaory ayeat
jomcmmnesootang agent: asigesio, satimicrabsia! qual ov antiiiag a so
33. Fhe ovedhund of elulon32-—herein= then inilounnatonyont
neumontedobiiee-azent or enahyenie- wamprises on vedioonnphalite oe
netural-orsnthetie-analeste-theresl: a-hetone-nensstilerpwne «nein
ihceie-onlonswe-sherceta portranalivie we wegat vob oy ogntatioan tie


10

16

\hvvet—o-tyearipariomor--sanuet—co-aynbtlo-alague-srve a
inbuiytomie-of»-polyusaimled-foy- olde a0-onee- of Zenon
egret Be nis consisted

1 — the mth cll ir hen the nilerbia- agent antiings)
savenienanenberaynbr

Bh F hematin! 6 Caine Hewheren che angimigrobial agent or aniiiunead
grat omple-iconasele-n- thet «-benstiren-an-teogsniine

37—The-svethod of claim 32, herein the-eavimiovabiaL-agont-or antigo!
cemt-comiprise senting or a-netenal-me—azntetic- analogy dere
chalerydirine- oa oat cals syatbetic-anatone-thetentehetidenin tena
vaucal-er-simihetiy-onaonte there sup aentomsid or a nabue-ar enlist
shbnate Pioponrann Meo aF Sanita i eevee Ma som cones
64 Melee aioe see

Ah the metivnicet sai 3 whersie eshorapwtioalty elses es!
‘ob thet aun one anthoeyanonides proanthioes anil sr-ontemets-ohow! sms
sah 800 me pos oie:
39,-—Fhe-smethod-of slain 30-sharoln-the-therapeviiouly-effvots mawot
‘oF tho at-feastone-aathoey anon provasinoeyanidin-or-entroetj-aboot 2000
me orhemper day)

46 Me meta! of sion 30, seharein the therapemtiwily-eHfeatlve amount
oF she at fent-one aheyunesiderprounshoeyenidin ve onlewel-is administered
He the-method-of-olaim 20 wherein she-sherapentivally effective: smnount



10

6

25

6

‘oF tha feostone anaeyaonides praaminaoysiidi + ose seems
tothe patient by-erobortepical adeiaitrtinn

12 Fhe methodoF alam 32 hers the ahetapontioa etl vctve ensonnt
Fane sctimigrobial agent th anifougat agent i-adunstre 44 the nti
by sysname,

43-~ The method-of elainy-32-horein the therapeutically elective annowat
‘Ltn emtimierobial ogentor tte susiincahapent admin isons! we dhe gato
1 opt se topier dministeaion

4H—Fhe method oF ela 30, where the meted comprises adumimistoriy
Pharmaceutiead-conmrenition <conpriinge the ty 00 0) ally ettevane
amen the at feast ne cnnocyamenie-protmbboeymidin arent. ni)
{Sh pormaceutiolly eecepmble-ensipiont:

45 The moe af lan bakerc the-pharmssstsl cannon a
the Gorn oi a fablatoerveptiers shawing gtmetetspid fan so corhmal yeh oe
ern

46. —the-mutbod-ot aim 44 tvherebt the pharoes ical wompomtn sa
he form fetus onsne tens peuteally few comin ost
anthoeyomosider proamhocyenidin-ot- asient-H-eonishned-ie-the tablet in aw
ent ot abel Him herabow 208-2 partake

47 The method of labia M. ssharein the pharnaccutict composition e 0
Ge foum oF 8 bean the bee Fer comprises heute etfetiee
netic of antimierobian eigen orotshagpabagent oo ui oF abet
esos HO mg portables

48. -Vhe method of lain soharebn ae: phunnssienl composition em
the om oF 6 stewie tine tues and theentr a coe 9! os my exes oF
Farsiom-myrtllare and shes he pharmaceutical cones Hl
omy om boapuinalineathal- esr try ase ena! 0
Moclowr cone ot-Maclewne-microearpa-avd  lipaphie-estivet of



|

|
|

10

6

etshetelimeapeene
Fhe mesh iain 30-whetabn the mutceaiis-aoomenin ogni oF the
pation postroemtavie tons

50. —Tre-methud-of claim Weasheresa the mnwaritis aveurs in dhe patient
‘mowih-esephinstomagh antestine-enlon- se arean oF

Sh hemline lan 30-wharenthe- mee seer op

rae
S52 Theametiodnehaimm3@ranherere te potion Wate coe

Sh The method of claim J wherein-the anersitie aseure @ conection

with theabinisation of -chematherapy or « cadioiecaps-ts ie patient
J The: methou-oF slaiar 30-whevein-the-inaeositis-aceuer

wih the adnviniseation of a chemotherapy cowprisiag the admins
santheneyeline Aurore patianel.-aetinnnmssinmvitheanssia- etejnnnd:

patecan-amsacritv. ntethetrexaie-hydronsiran-se-eplatimninesninplee
55. —the-method-of elains-36--wherein-the-therapentieally effective snssnnt
oF the ai east one enthaoyanasiie, proanthacyanidin-oF extinct is edministoredt

(othe pati Safar the paca’ receives aahenetheioy.
5 Ther mathod-of olen 36 wherein the therapcuticaly-efooHe° encom
10 the a deas ame aiapanasideproanihnsanidin-we-astraet-edmuniored
etre puis toile the pation tne tamale >

——the-motint-ot olen stiewharein-the-dhermpeulialls-sitoeitee annie
foe ot Senst ane ania anaide,prvambvnoyunidin at enter re duninieve
te the patiem ther thi pion receives wehenherspy

SH the ethind ot claim 20. wherein the mantis ous ew 468 ean
{5 patient and he mei Father-eumpicen-odmistering-«-sherysatially
eHinctiee amen of beneaphenenthidine-slhaleid—e—henenfinsn
ypestnin anon snelogtetheteakore Hasneiacinnton-ananalon ve iietea
118%, A pharmaceutical composition for use in the prevention o¢ Weatment +



10

18

3
prevention of mucositis comprising (+) hermpevtiv ei ¢-—tise anna at
least one of an-omthooyanoride.-»-prowathoeyaniin-or-on-entenet os
20th —anh—authowyanentsoar-w—prcentonsanidin asd (2)

phormneewtenity noveptable excipient,
68 —The-composition-of-elain-S9--ssherein-the-entioet-i derived from
Veaccintum myrtilius-ve-Fitir vine,

6h The eomposition-of claim 34 further-vompriuny -«-cherapention y

efiecttee— mnt Fat tenet one of aroun -llummatory oe
immanomociatinecont-aneeonamtamiorebiak ore oosionas oven:
(62.—The-conmpasition OF elaiay }--wherein-the-anii-inilammatoy agent
imam -tulting-egent-or-anetesic canprises-onr-aniographie-0
atven! ov synthetic anmbegue-theewot-e-aetone seiivileipene ee a vaturel
sstthetie-analogus dhereof-«-povihenalide-oF a tatueal oo-syothiiie anabon
thereat Cynareprern— er amves! er-aymtheticn cantons Helen
‘oats tunnne fa pobyunsaturotedfort—aeide-oman lipophilic extract of
damirenyiim: boceconom ot-Behinacea angustofolia 0s!

63. she composition -oF ele h-wherein-the aminvcrobiak agent oF
intone anamt- ee maurabwe statis

oh Fhe mest of alam 6hwhersinthe-omimviarabial-atent
saafomgat peu competiemivonazala aman hionte 9 nsetieea
ironeinotine othebsid—wr em ostiot-comprising-mivonah ke chosen 9
eerinasinctine alba,
$5-——The—oompesition-a-alaim Sh -whereiashe-ontoriorabivk <apont-ov
evita gato oent—comprises«bensphenauthridisis olivier a extant
comprisinechemanpenantetion sthoboide

66. Ue Lompnition-f-olainy 61 ahocsin the omimioroinal- amen
ntifeerze- ae ont coompeiiea-samgvinorlie-ut-o-netitas 14 scahetie-wnthese

thereof: chelonahtine-oF-e-natuto!-ac-yyathet-nnalagve theres! ltidenie



10

6

ore emtnnaloa oy iticthe aahague there earatetonnt on abet
syuthotis analogue shersot-or an extrat of Sanguinaria canadensis, Macleaya
‘cordata or Macleaya microcarpa.

6 —The-somposivion of elaim-S9—sherein-the-theropeutionlly-oflectve
‘amount-of-the-0t-Loust-one-anthoevenoside,-proanthcvanidin--estent-hy
sae SO mte-nbol SAL per out ew

65 — he composition of lalen-$9,-selverein-he-therapeutioatly effete
ho 300 m9 foe pr da

209, oe“ pharmaceutical composition for use according tof claim 1:
‘wherein the composition is suitable for systemic administration.

370, Foe-A pharmacsutical composition for uss accocding toof claim 189,
wherein composition is suitable for oral or topical administration.

‘he A pharmaccutical composition for use according to-! claim |»,
wher the compeation a athe form abl, a epee «chewing gun, 2
liquid form, a vaginal gel or granutates,

2. —The- composition of-cloim-$9—whersin-the-comporitian is» wal
compasition andthe pharmaceutically accepsahte-ovsipiewcis auhahle for 000
eat ataialstatton

noua oF sows 10mg te abant 200. per aber,
34 The composition a ehann $8, whesein the componisian i in ne
‘ater and the tablet (unhorenmprisers theeapeutiealyeifeetivewmnunt oa
ntiworobiak-apent or anidfangab agent t-on-anount oF abot 2 mig 6 aot
Wememrsabtet.

75 -The-cumpsition- of olan 88-hersin the eompasition dene foun of



10

18

28

10
{-show-iwbing-tblet-and-he-entaet-eompris-oi-estact-a-Loennt
nye, and-sahenein-he-eompositaoeforter-mpees at aguimatone
Macleava mierocarpa-ambatipaphitic- extract of dean ilierrlivn bimeooriats
‘the mucositis occurs in a part of the patient's gastroenteric tract,

aims 1-4, whercin

tient's mouth, esophagus. stomsch, is

LA pharmaccutical composition for use according to claim 1, wherein
‘said_composition is adminisicred to the paticnt before, while or afier the
patient recsives a chemotherapy,
