1

cams Leet od

1. Cannabidoic acid (CBDA) for use in the treatment of anintammmatany skin diene
‘hve the flammatory she heaacode-a microbial infacton induced dermatitis 2 slat
eras <¢ 9 atopic dereatie

IDA foe we accotling to <laim-4-winesin Beier nosy shut dicaaan ie cue
soca ct-asne:stopeas aesia:saliot-carsinone- Govan clesase songs
npthopoiats porphyria: contact eeveasts-Catlere cheno. ysivophi spldsemnoiys
ballon 2am (atope-eczema)-opidametyse-bHloes sinwion-<eytvopaiats
Proloporahyo: fungalinect ons ot nag Maloy allay Wi cnos nerpae siping
iaradenits-supeuratia: hesuisn hyperhadasis-chinyoone-ipelgo-batoin- Keratacie
avian planus tehen colorosus,malisa, pempli9:e- wigan planar ware
‘arn pyran ichonticat_poiynarpres iAP ansehen omMaS. 0
_gangrenosem rosaces: seatioe:shingfutseuamcus-tul esranons
anion.

seas syncrome.

3.-CBDA or sce sccortingto-daim 2 whiten ths intamenssoryshondinante ie sneee
(atopic eczams).

4 ~~ SBA orasse according Lesa sarin fe barepaiay sk cna le mast

_—CBDA fer use according to dane 1, wherain tne cariotneis Ist, en Wo em of
ight purtied edract of cannabis such that its present ot greater than 5 ofthe total
‘trac ().

"UDA for use accorting to claim 2, wherein he cannabinoid BOA Is emthetally
produced.

74__CBDA fer use according to any cf the crecesing cuime, whercn the cannabirest
|s used ata dose of ess than 2000 me

(©5_CADA for use according to csi =4 wherein the evens CBDA Is used at a dase of
‘between 19 and 1000m9,

24_.CADA tor use accorcing to any etna rrecnng calms, wherein the cawistionad
's used concomitanty with one or more ther mercican



0

6

2

|__CBDA for use according to claim 88, wherein the one or more other medicaments is @
cortcostecois

$48._A composition for use in the treatment of 2 microbial infction-nuces dermatis 9
lnflommatory skin cisease comprising Cannabidolic acd (CBDA) and one or more
[phamaceutieaty or cosmetically acceptable excpantsstheroin ho itaramatory oki
iseaee io mereblal infection induced demi 2 colar dermatitis oF a8 ODS
orate

52.9._A composition according to claim £2, wherein the compostion ie an oral or topical
‘composition.

-48:19_A composition according to claim 448 or claim 312, which isa pharmsceutcal

44.41. A composition according to claim 8 or claim 232, whichis a cosmetic
