Qoisoitules BE

z= eS a]
‘Dhaka Rao Katagada
Sok Grp HN 10 1307 SDA ChchRood Tom COE
Ten on (07) hate Prd 32202
INDIA coo

Pease find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding,

‘The time petiod for reply, if any, is set in the attached communication,

PTOL-50 ar. 407


Repieation appicania)
+7302,000' Karopadda ota

Office Action Summary [Examiner ‘An Unit | AIA Siatas
Susan CHotinan 55 [No

= Ths MAILINGS DATE Ti COmTTTEOD BONS FT CVT Shee! Th CTre=panCRTCG BOTeaS
Period for Reply

Saooeaceesccn coo
Fe ti as Sr
sus
7 Respnsive to conmuniaton) fe on 8/8.
Ch scart une’ 37 CFR. 1300) washers avon
20) secon PINAL 2) Tho aston so al
310) Anette wes made yf apcann epane toa estcnreqrenert stor ng nv on
ethos jurors te see haveboen Pears ot ee
{50 Sze sopcaten in condone aware ncn oral mater, proseeton a he mers
escenario wit te psc waar ErpareChaye B3SCO, Tin SOO oa

Dispostion of Claims"
5) @ Claims) 1-8 e/are pending in the appcaton.
'5a) OF the above caim(s) ___islare withérawn rom consideraton
8) O Gains) __tslare alone.
ne
8) © Claims) is/are objected to,
9) Claims) are subject to restricton andor election requirement
* any dine have bees daained alawatle. you may be otgbl to beet tom he Patent Prosecution Highway progam aa
arta neta property ofe fr the corresponding appcaton, Fr mare irfrmaton, please soe
‘bumi.esio goats svessscve sn o cond an nay 'o PPttsednack@uspto. gov.
Application Papers
0}, The specication Is objcted toby the Examiner.
11)0 Tre crawing(s) fled on __is/are: )()_accopted or b)0) object to by the Examiner
-Aosieant nay ot equ thal any objection othe deans) be haldin abeyance. See 27 CFR 1.85.
Replacement draniog eet) nung he coraconrequed he dawg) i objid ia See 37 CFR 1.1210,
Priory under 35 U.S.C. § 19
'2]Q) Acknowledgments made of a claim for foreign priory under 95 U.S.C. § 119(a}(4 o ().
‘Certied copies:
BAI BIC) Some} None of he:
4. Cente copies of he prionty documents have been received,
2.0) Cone copies o he proty éocuments have been received in Application No,
‘31@ Copies ofthe ceric copes ofthe priory documents have been received in this National Stage
‘apples irom the iferational Burau (PCT Aue 17 2a)
~ See ne tached doled Ofc action rai of the erie cre nt acaved

rates)
1) © eter ot erences Ces (TO.80) 29 Deron Summary (PTO)
apr Nena Cte
2) irtematen Duce Stoners (TOISBIE andor PTOSBOH)
Page Nea ate SUBS. DONG 9 Dover —
‘ore =

Praveen) ‘fe Aton Soy Pattee Noa oun 08


Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 2
‘Ant Unit: 1655

DETAILED ACTION
1. The present application is being examined under the pre-AIA first to invent provisions.

2, Claims 1-8 are currently pending.

{Information Disclosure Statement
3. The information disclosute statements fled February 9, 2015 and January 15, 2015 fail ©
‘comply with 37 CFR 1.98(a)(2), which requires a legible copy of each cited foreign patent
‘document; each non-patent literature publication or that portion which caused it. be listed; and
all other information or that portion which caused it tobe listed. It has been placed in the
application file, but the information referred to therein has not been considered with the

exception of the cited US Patent documents

Specification
4, The disclonure is objected to because ofthe following informalities: Pages 6-8 ofthe
specification are objected to because pages 6-8 contin narrative information that does not
appear o be part ofthe claims, According to MPEP section 608.01) the claims are the last
portion ofthe speciation prior to the abstract. Thus, the Office has categorized pages 6-8 as a
ontnantion of he claims. However, fo the sake of examination, they are considered to be part
of the specification rater than par of the claims. To correct his eror, applicant must cance he
smaterial on pages 6-8 and add this material tothe specification inorder to maintain the criginal
scope ofthe disclosure,

Appropriate correction is require.


Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 3
‘Art Unit: 1655

(Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 112
‘The following is a quotation of the first paragraph of 35 U.S.C. 112(@):

(@) INGENERAL. Te specfiion hal contin writen description ofthe invention. and
of te mane nd process f waking and singin such ul cle, concise an exact rms 3 ©
osble an pon sled i he at which peas o With whieh ts mst ea connec, 0
‘make onde the same, dal tor he best ode contemplated bythe inve moro it iveae

‘The following isa quotation ofthe frst paragraph of pre-AIA 35 U.S.C. 112:

‘Toe speciation sal cnn a writen derptin af th invention, nd of te moe ed
roc of ig ad sing sch il cer, ocean exact terme eabl any peta
lente ao which pertains, or with wc is mortal connected to mk aod we te
Snes hl st fon he es mode comermpied byte invetr of earyng ot hi invent,

5. Claim Bis rejected under 35 US.C.112(a) or35 USC. 112(pre-AIA), first paragraph,
because the specification, wile being enabling fr teating HIV or AIDS symptoms, does not
reasonably provide enablement fr “curing” HIV or AIDS. The specification does nt enable
ny person sie in the rt to which it pertains, or with which its most nearly connected, to
practice the invention commensurate in scope wih these claims

‘Undue experimentation would be required to practice the invention as claimed du tothe

‘quantity of experimentation necessary, limited amount of guidance and limited number of

working examples in the specification; nature ofthe invention; stat ofthe prior a reaive
stil level of thse in heat, predictability or unpredictability in the art; and breadth of the
claims. tn re Wands, 8 USPQ2¢ 1400, 140 (Fd. Ci. 1988)

“Applicant's claims are broly draw to a composition hat is cure HIV or AIDS,
However, itis wellknown in the art that here is no curently accepted “cre” for HIV or AIDS.
Itisnot currently posible to completely remove the vrs fom the body, eto “cure” HIV or
AIDS. Applicant's specification does not set forth any evidence that the claimed products able

{to cure” HIV or AIDS in patients. Thus, since applicants specification does not show thatthe


Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 4
‘A Unit: 1655

claimed composition is able to completely remove the HIV virus from the body and the art

acknowledges that such a “cure” is not currently possible, a person of ordinary skill inthe art
‘would be forced to experiment unduly in order to determine if applicant's invention actually
function as claimed. Therefore, the claims are not considered enabled for “curing” HIV or

ADs.

‘The following is a quotation of 35 U.S.C. 11206):
(@) CONCLUSION.—The specification sal ccnciade wie of more aims paral pointing
{etn deta chiming be mje ater wich ever jot vega he

‘The following is a quotation of 35 U.S.C. 112 (pre-AIA), second paragraph:
‘Toe specification stl conclude wih ee cr mor css partly ping ot ad itinty
log he subject mater wich he ppc rede als veto

Claims 1-8 are rejected under 35 U.S.C. 112() oF 35 U.S.C. 112 (pre-AIA), second
psragraph, as being indefinite for filing to particularly point out and distinety claim te subject
rater which the inventor ora join inventor, or for pre-AIA the applicant regards asthe
invention

‘The claims are generally narrative and indefinite, futing to conform with current US.
practice. They appear tobe @litral translation into English from a foreign document and are
replete with grammatical and idiomatic rors.

6. Claim 1 is indefinite because

in naratve form which makes it unclear what the
limitations of the claim ae considered tobe. The claim sates that itis drawn to Tephrosia
purpurea leaves and describes the leaves as containing chemicals r “morphological structures”
which are “ver ative” in“uapping viruses” Iti unclear whats encompassed by
“morphological structures.” In addition its unclear what activites are considered to be

‘encompassed by “trapping” viruses and how to determine when aT. purpurea leafs “very


Page 5

active in “trapping viruses.” It appears that claim 1 is drawn tothe T purpurea leaves
themselves and will be examined in this manner.

7. Claim 2s indefinite due to its narrative form. Claim 2 reads as if tis intended to be

dependent on claim 1; however, claim 2 does not explicitly state tht it is dependent on claim 1

(Clie 2 willbe examined as fit does depend on claim 1. It is unclear what degrees of

effectiveness are encompassed by “very effective” against retroviral diseases. In addition, the

pase “such as" renders the claim indefinite becau
following the phrase are part of the claimed invention See MPEP § 2173.05(2. Furthermore,
the parameters of normal, good heli are unclear. Applicant as nt defined what
characteristics a subject must have inorder tobe considered in “normal” oe “ood” health
(Clim 2 is also indefinite because iis unclear ifthe slash indicates “and” or “or.”

3 is indefinite because the use of “possible” and “perhaps” is narrative language
rather than definite limitations. This language is inconsistent with U.S. claim construction and

‘makes it unclear what limitations are required by the claim other than that the claim is drawn to

an extract from T. purpurea leaves,

9. Cha

4is indefinite due to the narative language “is also a
10. Clim Sis indefinite due to the narrative language “re able to.”

11, Claim 6is indefinite det its narrative form and the narrative langue “also are
effective". Claim 6 reads as iit depends from claim 5; however, thisis not explicitly stated.
Cam 6 wi be examined a if it does depend from cai 6. In adition, the use of parentheses
‘sindetnte because itis unclear if the limitation enclosed are required elements of the claim.
12 Claim 7is indefinite due tothe narrative langue “re also..". In ation, itis unclear

‘hat degrees of effectiveness are encompassed by “very effective." Furthermore, itis unclear


‘Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 6
‘Art Unit: 1655

what types of infectious disses are encompassed by “opportunistic infectious diseases
associated with primary viral infections.” In adition, the phrase “such as" ender the elim
indefinite because i is unclear whether the limitation fellowing the phase are past of the
claimed invention. See MPEP §2173.05(). Claim 7 lo indefinite because iis unclear the
slash indiates “and” or or.”

13. Claim 8s indefinite due to narrative language. In addition, claim 8 only contains

intended uses:

thout any structural limitations. Furthermore, there isa lack of antecedent basis
forthe formula” as recited inline 1 ofthe claim. Claim 8 is also indefinite because itis unclear

if the slashes indicate “and” or “or.”

(Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 101
35US.C. 101 reads as follows:

‘nceverinvems or cover any bw and fl procs, machin, manuf, composition of
smut or ony new snd efi improvenent eres, mycin 9 patent hrf, sje
‘dion and equrements of ie

14, Claims 1-8 are rejected under 35 U.S.C. 101 because the claimed invention is directed to
judicial exception (ie. a law of nature, a natural phenomenon, or an abstract idea) without
significantly more. Claim(s) | and 2 isvare directed to Tephrosia purpurea leaves. Tephrosia
porpurea leaves are natural products; thus, claims 1 and 2 are directed to judicial exceptions
(Claims 1 and 2 do not include any structural Limitations in addition tothe eaves themselves:
therefore, claims 1 and 2 are not directed to patent eligible subject matter because there are no
limitations inthe claims that create a markedly distinction between the naturally occurring

“Tephrosia purpurea leaves and the claimed Tephrosia purpurea leaves


Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 7
‘Ant Unit: 1655

Claims 3-8 are drawn 10 purpurea leaf extracts. A change inthe ratio or amount of
compounds to create an “extrac” ffom the plant doesnot ransform the claims into an exemption
ofthe “judicial exception” because amountsratios/perentages donot st forth “markedly
<itferen” structure as compared tothe naturly-occurring product (see; ¢.g, Diamond ¥.
Chakrabarty, 447 U.S. 303 (1980). Extraction of pans only concentrates and portions the
naturally occurring compounds inthe plants which are soluble or insoluble inthe particular
solvent. General extraction doesnot necessarily result in a markedly distinct change in he
naturally occurring compounds from the plant. Thus, the claims ae drawn to mixtures of
‘natrally occurring products. Therefore, the claims are drawn to judicial exceptions.

“The claim(s) does not include aiional elements that are sufficient to amount 19
significantly more than the juicial exception because the claims does not recite any elements in

addition tothe naturally occurring products.

Claim Rejections -35 USC § 102
“The following is a quotation of the appropriate paragraphs of pre-AIA 35 U.S.C, 102 that
form the bass forthe rejections under this section made inthis Office action:
‘Ape sal ced peat oe -

(bth fventon was patented o dein ri pubiicaton a this rig oun or in
ble ure ae this out. ethan oe Yar pro othe dt of pict opt inthe
Unie Stes

15. Claims) 1 and 2are is/are rejected under pre-AIA 35 U.S.C. 102(b) as being anticipated
by prior art admitted by applicant in the specification,
(Claim 1 and 2 are drawn to T. purpurea leaves. T. purpurea leaves are a known, naturally

‘occurring product as admitted by applicant on page 1 ofthe specification


Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 8
‘Ant Unit: 1655

‘The leaves ae not stated as being useful forthe same purposes as claimed by applicant in

claims 1 and 2. However, a recitation of th

rnded use of the claimed invention must result in
1 structural difference between the claimed invention and the prior art in order to patently
‘distinguish the claimed invention from the prior at. Ifthe prior art structure is capable of

performing the intended use, then it meets the claim.

18. Chin) 18 eso der AIA 35 USC: 10) eng dy

The leaves and extracts are not stated as being usefbl forthe same purposes as claimed by
‘applicant inthe claims. However, a recitation ofthe intended use ofthe claimed invention must
_esltin astral ference betwee the aimed invention andthe pie at in order o
enablyeistingush the climed invention fom the prior ax. the prorat stractre i capable
of performing the intended use, then it meets he claim.

17, Claimgs) 1-8 isfare rejected under pre-ATA 35 U.S.C. 102(b) as being anticipated by
Fields (GB 2469577).
‘This reference teaches T. purpurea leaves and T. purpurea leaf extracts useful for

infectious disease, dirthea, feline AIDS, and liver disease see paragraph spanning pages 5

page 7 and claims 1-4, 18, and 19).
‘The leaves and extracts are not stated as being useful for the same purposes as claimed by

applicant in the claims. However, a recitation of the intended use of the claimed invention must,


‘Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page9
‘Art Unit: 1655

result ina structural difference between the claimed invention and the prior art in order to

patentably distinguish the cl

1d invention from the prior at Ifthe prior art structure is capable

of performing the intended use, then it meets the claim.

18. Noclaims are allowed.

‘Any inquiry concerning this communication or earlier communications from the

‘examiner should be directed to Susan Coe Hoffman whose telephone number is (571)272-0963.

“The examiner can normally be reached on M-Th 8:30am - 3:30pm.

Examiner interviews are available via telephone, in-person, and video conferencing using
USPTO supplied web-based collaboration tool. To schedule an interview, applicant is
encouraged toute the USPTO Automated Interview Request (AIR) at
ptr usp govinterviewpratice.

‘attempts to each the examine by telephone are unsuccessful the examiner's
supervisor, Tey McKelvey can be reached on $71-272.0775, The fx phone number fr the
“organization where this application or proceeding is asigned is $71-273-8300.

Information regarding the statu ofan application may be obtained from the Pent
Applicaton Information Retieval (PAIR) sytem. Status information for published applications
‘may be obtained from either Private PAIR or Public PAIR. Status information fr unpublished
applications i available through Private PAIR only. For more information about the PAIR
system, sce htp://pir- direct spt.gov, Should you have questions on access othe Private PAIR

system, contact the Electronic Business Center (EBC) at 866-217-9197 (toll-free). I you would


‘Application/Control Number: 14/392,009 Page 10
‘Ant Unit: 1655

like assistance from a USPTO Customer Service Representative or access to the automated

information system, call 800-786-9199 (IN USA OR CANADA) or 571-272-1000,

/SUSAN HOFFMAN/
Primary Examiner, Art Unit 1655
