PATENT
IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE,

Inte Application of 2 GOKARAJU et al
For
Serial No.: 121679826
Filed March 24, 2010
Ast Unit, 1655
Examiner Amy Lynn CLARK
At, Docket 2 LIX goa?
Confirmation No. 9829
‘RESPONSE To RESTRICTION REQUIREMENT WITH AMENDMENT
Mail Stop Amendment
Commissioner for Patents
P.O, Box 1450

Alexandria, VA 22313-1450
Sir:

In response to the Office Action dated August 23, 2011, please amend the
above-identified application as set forth below!

(CLAIMAMENDMENTS borin on page 2 of this paper
REMARKS/ARGUMENTS begin on page 12 ofthis paper.


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No.* LIX 3027

‘This listing of claims will replace all prior versions and listings of claims in

the application
Listing of Claims

1-22, (Cancelled)

RUCHED §—Antiadipogonie herbal compositions for

inhibiting or preventing or ameliorating disease conditions associated with
adipogenesis in mammals, comprising:

‘en effective-amount from 33% to 67% by weight of an extract or purified
fraction derived from Piper betie and

an effective amount of an extract or purified fraction derived from Dolichas
bifforus: optionally in combination with at least one biologically acceptable

excipient.

24. (Currently amended) ‘The anti-adipogonic compositions as claimed

in claim 58 23, wherein the effective amount of an extract or purified fraction

derived from Piper betie in the compositions varies from 1% to 99% by woight.

25, (Currently amended) ‘The antiradipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 58 28, wherein the composition comprises Piper botle extract in the range
of 1% - 99% by weight and Dolichas biflrus extract in the range of from greater

than 0% to 70% by weight.


‘New Application

Attorney Dockot No.* LIX 3027

26. (Currently amended) Anti-adipogenie herbal compositions for
‘inhibiting -or_preventing—oramelionating—disense—eonditions—assoviated—with
dipogenesis-in-mammals,-comprising-an-effootive-amount-ofan-extract-om purified

Fraction-derived-from-Piper-botle,-an-ellecti int-of-an-extract—or-purified
Fo rn —Dotiehos yo -a_mintiire—thereof- wally an
ele stash ‘biclogieally-accoptable-exeipiont according to claim
23,

wherein the composition comprises Piper botle extract in tho range of 40%

60% by weight and Dolichos biflorusextract in the range of 60 - 40% by weight

27. (Previously Presented) Antiradipogenic herbal compositions for
inhibiting or preventing or ameliorating disease conditions associated with
adipogenesis in mammals, comprising:

an effective amount of an extract or purified fraction derived from Piper
betle

optionally an effective amount of an extract or purified fraction derived from
Dolichos biflorus,

optionally in combination with at least one biologically acceptable excipient

wherein the said Pipor betle extract further comprises one or more of the
antivadipogenic or antivobesic agents selected from the group consisting of extracts

or fractions devived from Commiphora mukul, Boerhavia diffesa, Tribulus


New Application
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3027

terrestris, and Zingiber officinale, and mixturos thereof and optionally contains a

bio-enhancing agent or a bio-protecting agent.

28. (Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as in claim
27, wherein the composition comprises extracts of Piper betle, Commiphora mukul,
Bocrhavia diffusa, Tribulus terrestris, Zingiber officinale along with said bio-
enhancing agent, wherein said bio-enhancing agent comprises an extract of Piper

nigrum,

29. (Proviously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as in claim
27, wherein the composition comprises Piper betle extraet in the range of 10-40%,
Commiphora mukul extract in the range of 10-40%, Boerha via diffusa extract in the

range of 10-40%, Tribulus terrestris extract in the range of 10-40%, Zingiber

officinale extract in the range of 10 - 40% and said extract of Piper aigrum in the
vange of 10-40%.
30. Previously Presented) ‘The antiadipogenic compositions as in claim

26, wherein the said compositions optionally comprise anti-adipogenie or anti-obese
agents selected from the group consisting of an Holoptolia integrifolia extract, 2
Garcinia cambogia extract, a green tea extract, a green coffee boan extract, an
eucalyptus plant extract, a bitter orange (Citrus auruntium) extract, Conjugated
linoleic acid, a Hoodia Gordonii extract, an Allium sativum extract, chromium (II)

complexes, DHEA, and 7-Keto-DHEA.


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3027

81. (Previously Presented) ‘The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 26, wherein said extracts or purified fractions or compositions are
formulated optionally with biologically acceptable excipients into specific dosage
forms selected from the group consisting of nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals, and

dietary forms,

82. (Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogonie compositions as in claim
26, wherein said compositions further comprise an effective amount of at least one

pharmaceutically or nutritionally or dietetically acceptable antioxidant,

\daprogen,
anti-inflammatory agent, anti-diabetic agent, bio-protectant, trace metals or

mixture thereof to form a formulation,

83. (Proviously Presented) ‘The antiradipogonic compositions as claimed
{in claim 26, wherein said composition is in a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
suitable form for oral administration, said pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
suitable form being selected from the group consisting of tablets, soft capsules, hard

capsules, pills, granules, powders, emulsions, suspensions, syrups, and pellets

34. (Previously Presented) The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 31, wherein the pharmaceutically or nutracoutically suitable form is suitable
for parenteral administration selected from the group consisting of injections, drops,

and suppositories.


New Application,
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3027

85. (Previously Prosented) ‘The antiradipogenic compositions as claimed

in claim 26, wherein said compositions are in the form of « dietary formulation

36. (Previously Presented) ‘A pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form
‘comprising a composition of claim 28 and a sufficient amount of a pharmaceutically

acceptable oxcipiont.

87. (Currently amended) A nutracoutical dosage form comprising a
composition of claim 28, optionally further comprising a sufficient amount of a

nutraceutically or diotetieally acceptable excipient.

38. (Canceled)

39. (Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic composition as claimed
{in claim 28, wherein said composition further comprises a pharmaceutically or
nutracoutically or dietetically or veterinary acceptable additive, wherein the said

additive is a binder, diluent, antioxidant or a lubricant.

40. (Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 23, wherein a source of the extract or purified fraction derived from Piper
betie is a plant part selected from the group consisting of leaf, seed, trunk, root and

combinations thereof and


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No.’ LIX 3027

4 source of the extract or purified fraction derived from Dolichos biflorus is a
plant part selected from the group consisting of leaf, seed, trunk, root and

combinations thereof,

41. Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 23, wherein the extract or purified fraction derived from Piper betle and
the extract or purified fraction derived from Dolichos biflorus are derived by
‘extraction from plant parts with a solvent, wherein the solvent used for extraction
of the plant parts is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol,

propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol, dimet

vl
ketone, methyl ethyl ketone, acetone, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl acetate, ethyl

acetate, butyl acotate, diethyl ether, water and mixtures thereof,

42, (Withdrawn) A mothod for inhibiting adipogenesis and fat
accumulation in a mammal, comprising administering to a said mammal an
effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 28, as a dietary or

nutraceutical or pharmaceutical composition.

43. (Withdrawn) A method for inhibiting or preventing or treating
adipogenosis mediated diseases in a mammal comprising administering to a said

‘mammal an effective amount of « composition aé claimed in claim 28,


‘New Application
Attorney Dockot No. LIX 3027

44. (Withdrawn) A weight controlling treatment regimen, compris

administering the antivadipogenic compositions as claimed in claim 23, wherein the
compositions are administered either before meals or as a meal replacement as a

art of an overall weight control plan.

45. (Previously Prosented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 23, wherein the said compositions optionally comprise anticadipogenic or
aantivobose agents selected from the group consisting of an Holoptelia intogrifolia
extract, a Garcinia cambogia extract, a green tea extract, a green coffee bean
extract, a eucalyptus plant extract, a bitter orange (Citrus aurantium) extract,
Conjugated linoleic acid, a Hoodia gordonii extract, an Allium sativum extract,

chromium (IID complexes, DHEA, and 7-Keto-DHBA.

46. (Previously Presented) ‘The antivadipogenic compositions as claimed
in claim 23, wherein said extracts or purified fractions are formulated with
biologically acceptable excipients into specific dosage forms, said dosage forms being
selected from the group consisting of nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals, or dietary

forms.

47. Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in

claim 82, wherein said bio-protectant is Cureuma Jonga,


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3027

48. (Previously Presented) The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 26, wherein said compositions are in the form of a dietary formulation
selected from the group consisting of chocolate bars, nutritional bars, creams, jams,
gels, beverages selected from the group consisting of coffee, tea, a milk-containing
beverage, a lactic acid bacteria-containing beverage, drops, candies, chowing gums,
chocolates, gummy candies, yoghurt, ice cream, puddings, soft adzuki-bean jellies,

jellies, and cookies,

49. (Previously Presented) A pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form
comprising a composition of claim 23, further comprising a sufficient amount of a

pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

50. (Previously Presented) A nutracoutical dosage form comprising a
composition of claim 28, further comprising a sufficient amount of a nutraceutically

acceptable excipient,

51. (Previously Presented) A dietary dosage form comprising a composition of
claim 23, further comprising a sufficient amount of a diotetically acceptable

excipient.

52. (Withdrawn) A method for inhibiting or preventing or treating
adipogenesis mediated diseases in a mammal comprising administering to a said

‘mammal an effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 23,


New Application
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3027

53. (Withdrawn) A__method for inhibiting adipogenesis and fat
accumulation in a mammal, comprising administering to a said mammal an
effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 23, as a dietary or

nutracoutical or pharmaceuti

composition.

54. (Withdrawn) A method for inhibiti

1 or preventing or treating
adipogenesis mediated diseases in a mammal comprising administering to a said

‘mammal an effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 26,

56. (Withdrawn) ‘The method according to claim 54, wherein said

adipogenesis mediated diseases are obesity, oxcess body weight, fat accumulation,

ora combination thereof.

56. (Previously Presented) ‘The composition comprising at least one component
selected from the extract(s) and fraction(s) derived from Piper betle in combination
with at least one component selected from the extracts) and fraction(s) derived
from Dolichos bifforus, optionally in combination with at least one biologically

acceptable excipient.

57. (Previously Presented) ‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in
claim 23, wherein said compositions are in the form of a dietary formulation
‘selected from the group consisting of chocolate bars, nutritional bars, creams, jams,

els, beverages selected from the group consisting of coffee, tea, a milk-containing

10


New Application
Attomey Docket No. LIX 3027

beverage,

lactic acid bacteria-containing beverage, drops, candics, chewing gums,
chocolates, gummy candies, yoghurt, ice cream, puddings, soft adzuki-bean jellies,

jellies, and cookies.

58. (New) An antiadipogenic herbal composition for inhibiting disease
conditions associated with adipogenesis in mammals, comprising?

an effective amount of an extract or purified fraction derived from Piper
botles

an effective amount of an extract or purified fraction derived from Dolichos
biflorus: and

an optional biologically acceptable excipient:

wherein said extract or purified fraction derived from Piper betle and said

coxtract or purified fraction derived from Dolichos bifforus are the only herbal

ingredients present in said anti-adipogenic herbal composition.
59. (New) An anti-adipogenic herbal composition for inhibiting disease
conditions associated with adipogenesis in mammals, comprising a first herbal
component and an optional biologically acceptable excipient:

said first herbal component comprising an effective amount of an extract
derived from Piper betle and an effective amount of an extract derived from

Dolichos bifforus:

u


New Application
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3027

wherein said first herbal component is prepared by # process consisting
essentially of mixing said extract derived from Piper betie and said extract derived
from Dolichos biflorus.

60. (ew) _‘The anti-adipogenic compositions as claimed in claim 23, further
comprising a second herbal component selected from the group consisting of an

Holoptelia integrifolia extract, a Gareinia cambogit

xtract, a green tea extract, a
green coffee bean extract, a eucalyptus plant extract, a bitter orange (Cicrus
aurantium) extract, a Hoodia gordonii extract, am Allium sativum extract, and

mixtures thereof,

2


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No. LIX 8027

REMARKS/ARGUMENTS

By this amendment, claim 38 is cancoled and claims 58:60 ure added.
Claims 28°26 and 37 are amended. No new matter has been added.
In response to the Resrtiction Requirement dated August 23, 2011, the

Applicants elect Group I, claims 23-41, 45-51, 56 and

, directed to the
‘composition, with traverse,

‘The Applicants traverse the restriction requirement on the grounds that the
composition and a therapeutic method of using the same are commonly classified,
and can be searched together without placing an undue burden on the Office. We
also traverse the restriction requirement on the grounds that claims 42-44 and 52:
55 are linking claims which link a composition and a method of using the

composition. According to MPEP § 809,

{where an application includes claims to distinct invent
claims, restriction ean nevertheless be requived

1» a8 well a linking

‘The Linking claims must be examined with, and thus are considered part of, the
invention elected. When all claims directed to the elected invention are allowable
should any linking claim be allowable, the restriction requirement between the
linked inventiona must be withdruwn,

Accordingly, linking claims 42-44 and 52:55 should be considered part of the
invention directed to the composition. Therefore, the linking claims must be

searched with the composition claims.

13


‘New Application
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3027

ibcipateaFTAOTEAANGE 1c in noted that the Piper betle in the cited art is

present in an amount of no more than 1 part out of 5, i., 20%, Accordingly, claim
23 has been amended to recite that the claimed composition comprises between
83% and 67% Piper betle. Support for this amendment is found in Examples 5-7.

Additionally, new claim 58 recites herbal compositions comprising Piper botle
and Dolichos biflorus as the only herbal compositions. Bherata Bhaitajya
Ratnekara recites a composition comprising Piper botle and Dolichos biflorus, as
well as Ficus benghalensis and Butea monosperma. Again, support for this claim is
found in Examples 5-7,

Further, new claim 59 recites herbal compositions comprising a first herbal component

ing Piper bette and Dolichos biflorus. The first herbal component is prepared by a

process consisting essentially of mixing the extract derived from Piper betle and the extract
derived from Dolichos bilorus. Support for this claim is found in Examples 5-7. Bherata
Bhaitajya Ratnekara (TKDL abstract) describes a different composition prepared by
heating the components in a crucible to produce an ash; the heating step is described in the
abstract. The end product is a "bhasma’ or ash that is consumed. Since the healing step converts
the extracts into an ash, the heating step materially changes the nature of the extracts in the First
hhezbal component. Bherata Bhaitajya Ratnekara (TKDL abstract) provides no
teaching or suggestion that the extract derived from Piper betle and the extract derived from
Dolichos biflorus should be combined inthe absence of a heating step.

While we believe that the instant amendment places the application in

condition for allowance, should the Examiner have any furthor comments or

uw


New Application
Attomey Docket No.: LIX 3027

suggestions, it is respectfully requested that the Examin

telephone the
undersigned attorney in order to expeditiously resolve any outstanding issues.

In the event that the fees submitted prove to be insufficient in connection
with the filing of this paper, please charge our Deposit Account Number 50-0578

and please credit any excoss foes to euch Deposit Account.

Respectfully submitted,
‘KRAMER & AMADO, P.C.

Date: __September 16, 2011__ SSS

Arlir M. Amado
Registration No 51,399

KRAMER & AMADO, P.C.
1725 Duke Street, Suite 240
Alexandria, VA 22314
Phone: 703:519-9801

Fax! 703-519-9802

6
