ae

Sm" 23.02.2015 Smt feocwrmne 09769 808.8

‘The examination s being cared out onthe folowing application documents

Description, Pages

1,2.426 2s published
3.98 fied in electronic form on 2aso2012
Claims, Numbers

ry tied in electronic torm on 17-04-2014

Drawings, Sheets

1713313,5/13, as publsned
masana

4n3,6n3 aod in loetrone form on vr082016

The present communication contains remarks under the following sections:

‘Amendments (Art. 123(2) EPC)

Clarity (Art, 84 EPC) and sutticlency of disclosure (Art. 83 EPC)
Unpatentable Matter (Art. 53(¢) EPC)

Novelty (Art, 54(1) and (2) EPC)

Inventive Step (Art. 56 EPC)

Formal Aspects

Conclusion

Amendments (Art, 123(2) EPC)

Basis in the application as

sis suf
theo Basis sufficient

Claim

_



BE 23.02.2018 ae SEE 09 269 208.8
& mm —

| claim 1

| A. marmoios ao! nt

|eranot exact exampe 1

| (and other examples),
: combination ofA marmoios | no, se blow

Inatoxact wih. sala

AKBA extract: p15§4

| “topical conditions, eczema,

| and psoriasis": claim 5
2 [clam 19 yee
3 clas 2 vee |

cla 14 ve
so eam yes |
| a :
i yes
— |
\7 ha |
io cla 7 [ves |
[——
* ves |
0 yes |
an re
(2 - yee

Claim 1 - deletion of the term “synergistic”
‘The applicant has not indicated a basis under Art, 123(2) EPC for the deletion of the
‘essential feature of synergy in claim 1 which was present in claim 1 as filed. Synergy
‘is essential for the recognition of inventive step. Deleting an essential feature violates
‘Ant. 123(2) EPC. It has to be re-instated

orem


if

302.2015

it

Aemeanore 09 769 808.8

Regarding the multiple dependencies introduced to the claims fled upon entry into the
regonal phase, p14§5 - p18§1 provide also a basis, alongside the originally fied
claims.

The folowing ig not to be construed to give consent in the meaning of Rule 137(3)
EPC to any future submitted amendments. It does apply to any already submitted
amendment and future amendment.

Under Rule 137(4) EPC, the applicant, when filing aset of claims, has to provide a
‘complete basis of the claims in the application as tiled (where an attempt to comply
with this Rule has been made, this is highly appreciated). Where claims have been
submitted upon entry into the European phase without indicating any basis, this has
tobe made good in any following reply from the applicant.

Referring to claims sets that are not as fled or merely stating that @ basis exists in the
"description as fled or in “the original claims” does not comply with ule 137(4) EPC.
‘nor Art. 123(2) EPC - compare the applicant's letter received 17-04-2014, p1

AA basis has to be indicated for each and every claim. The applicant should note that
6g adding multiple dependencies to claims of single dependency (US-style claims) is
‘ot allowed unless there is basis in the description as well

Further, the content of two or more independent original claims cannot freely be
‘combined since each independent claim represents a separate embodiment.

‘Also, when deleting non-optional features from an independent claim then a basis has
to be indicated elsewhere in the description showing that this feature was not
essential, and/or that the embodiment without that feature also was encompassed by
the original disclosure,

Finally, when regrouping various alternative embodiments in a single claim the
applicant should refrain from what has become common yet incorrect practice, viz. to
Connect those alternative embodiments with an “andlor” while failing to indicate a
basis for the combination of the alternatives in each permutation, ie not indicating
basis for the “and.

‘The representative is also kindly requested to indicate which single
‘embodiment of the application as originally filed supports each resulting
‘combination of features of the claimed subject-matter. This includes as well a
|usttication for the omission of features of the embodiments.

‘Without above information, the amendments are likely to be considered as not directly
‘and unambiguously derivable from the application as originally fled and therefore as,
representing added subject-matter (Article 123(2) EPC).



Baw” 23.02.2015 a Repeater te 09-769 808.8

‘Any other indication in the present communication suggesting amendments to the
applicant or referring to a “new set of claims” cannot be construed to indicate consent
by the Examining Division in the meaning of Rule 137(3) EPC to any future submitted
amendments,

Formal aspects

In order to facilitate the examination of the conformity of the amended application with
the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC, the applicant should clearly identify the
amendments made, irrespective of whether they concern amendments by addition,
replacement or doletion, and indicate the passages of the application as filed (not of
‘amended documents) on which these amendments are based (see Guidelines HI),
2.2), Proterably, a track change copy showing all amendments accompanied by a
‘lean typed copy should be submitted. Handwritten amendments cannot be accented
\Bule 49/8) EPC)

‘Clarity (Art, 84 EPC) and sufficiency of disclosure (Art. 63 EPC)

‘Topical conditions and wrinkles
Inthe last communication, objections were raised against
= wrinkles”

‘The applicant in its letter and amendments dated 17-04-2014 did not address at ail the
‘objection raised against “topical conditions”. Further, according to claim 5 as filed,
“wrinkles” fall under the term “topical conditions” currently employed in claim 1, i it is
stil encompassed

‘The disclosure regarding the treatment of any "topical condition” (compare claim 1) is
Insulficionty disciosed (An. 83 EPC) since topical condition” eg includes skin cancer,
kaposi sarcoma, etc., which are not necessarily amenable fo an anti-inlammatory
treatment. Also, wrinkles are not considered to involve inflammation, which means that
thoir treatment is insufficiently disclosed (Art. 83 EPC). Further, wrinkles faling under
the term “topical conditions” are not considered a disease, which renders claim 1
‘unclear in that itis worded in the format required under Art. 54(5) EPC for medical
uses yet refers to a non medical cosmetic use,



oem oo eis
Sm" 23.02.2015 oe 5 eaiaron ve 09 769 808.8
os roe omens

Adaptogens, bioavailability enhancers,
Itis unclear to which specific compounds the terms “adaptogens, bioavailability
‘ennancers” in claim 9 refer to, These compounds appear not 1o be part of the common
‘general knowledge and are thus insufficiently disclosed (Art. 83 EPC). They have to
'be replaced win structurally defined compounds.

‘The applicant has cited in its response dated 24-10-2012 Annexes | and il which
‘web dictionaries with an entry for the term “adaptogen’. Also cited Annex Ills a
review paper according to which “adaptogens are piant extracts that allow an
‘organism to counteract adverse physical, chemical, and biological stressors by
(generating nonspecific resistance. Adaptogens are known to increase the availabilty
‘of energy during the day, reduce stressed feelings, increase endurance, and increase
‘mental alertness. As an example of an adaptogen Rhodiola rosea Is given.

‘The term “adaptogen is effectively a functional definition of a compound. All three
following conciticns need to be fulfiled to allow a functional definition of a compound:

1) the compounds showing the desired functionality are part of the common general
knowledge and the functionality is accepted in the prior at to have a clear technical
meaning (see T 0241/95, OJ 2/2001, 103),

2) the functionality can be verified using tests or procedures adequately specified in
the description or known to the skilled person and which do not require undue
‘experimentation (see T 0088/85, Ov 6/1987, 228 and Guidelines F-lV, 4.10), and

3) the invention is described not only in terms ofits structure, but also in terms of its
function, unambiguousiy showing that the functional activity is essential or the solution
Of the technical problem underlying the invention, regardless of the structure of the
‘compounds (Guidelines F-!, 1).

In the present case, conditions 1) - 3) have not been fufiled for the following reasons:
1) The term “adaptogen” seems to have an accepted functionality in the world of
alternative, holistic and other non-evidence based medical approaches. To
“counteract adverse physical, chemical, and biological stressors by generating
nonspecific resistance’, or o “increase the availabilty of energy during the day,
reduce stressed feelings, increase endurance, and increase mental alertness" which
characterises an adaptogen, seem to be rather subjective parameters which can be
mostiy ascribed to the placebo effect occurring in a person deeply believing in the
function of an adaptogen

The “common general knowiedge" in the sonse of 1) has to be equated with common
general knowledge evidence-based medicine since this is the only medicine which
fufflls te requirements of Art. 83 EPC.



bas” 23.02.2025 et 6 Neowanonnc 09 769 808.8

2) A placebo effect is not considered a technical feature of @ medical agent and
‘ouble-blind studies would reveal such a missing functionality of an adaptogen. Also,
no tests to verity the function are mentioned inthe application, nor are they part ofthe
common general knowledge.

3) Itis unclear how the placebo effect of an adaptogen, which is not scientifically
reproducibie and very much depends on the mindset ofthe person being treated,
could be essential to the solution ofthe technical problem of claim 9 which is to
provide a treatment for the disorders mentioned in claim 1

‘The term “adaptogen" has to be deleted entirely (claims and description).

Regarding the term “bioavailability enhancers” of claim 9, ths term also is a
functional definition of a compound and the above conditions 1) -9) have to be
fulfilled.

‘The applicant has cited in ts response dated 24-10-2012 Annexes IV, V, VI and Vil
and stated that “bioavailability enhancers are known to be compounds that increase
the bioavailability of another compound.
Annex IV is a single patent application, unfit to disclose common general knowledge,
Gisclosing that piperine increases the bioavailability of beta-carotene through
gastrointestinal absorption.
Annex Vis not a review but a single research article. Annex V discloses that
docosahexanenoic acid (OHA) is a bioavailability enhancer for CYPSA substrates
such as cyclosporin A when administered orally, with no effect when administered
intravenously,
Annex VI is a single patent publication of which the applicant did not bother to submit
‘anything more than the front page which bears the ttle “Bioavailability Enhancers", It
isnot the Examining Division's task to identify the meaning of this document.
Annex Vil does not bear a publication date. Itindicates that the web-page uses
cookies, which is due to a recently (fe after the fling date in 2008) adopted European
regulation which requires web-pages to inform users of the presence of cookies. It has
been published after the fling date. Also, the print-out has cut off several words at the
‘ight margin, making the document party illegible. I lists three different "bioavailability
enhancers” specific for
"poorly soluble drugs",

“to disperse active substances and polar lipids”,
- "bioavailability of today's complex compounds.”



on ot
m7 Reneatonne: 09 769 808.8
vane Somance =

2a.

if

‘Apart trom not boing part ofthe prior at, Annex Vil does not disclose in regard to
which administration rovte which particular drugs coud be enhanced in their
bioavailability

None of the Annexes IV - VII belong to documents that would disclose common
‘general knowledge such as textbooks or widely read and cited reviews. They
‘single patent applications, scientific research articles and a document not forming
prior art, These cocuments disclose:

= the route of administration is important when choosing an enhancer - DHA had no
‘enhancing effect in the iv. route (Annex V),

= specific drugs require specific enhancers compare the drug / enhancer pairs of
‘Annex IV (beta-carotene / piperine) and Annex V (cyclosporin A / DHA), or even,
Annex Vil providing three different enhancers for diferent drugs.

iaim 9 refers to a mixture of two plant extracts with a multitude of unidentified
‘compounds presont. Claim 9 does not indicate of which particular compound the
bioavailability should be enhanced.

‘The composition of the claims can be administered through many diferent
‘administration routes - compare claim 10: oral, parenteral, nasal, ocular, etc. The prior
art cited by the applicant discloses that the route of administration is important when.
‘choosing the enhancer for a given compound

Inthe context of a mixture of many unidentified compounds to be administered
through an unspecified route, and in the entire absence of any indication regarding the
‘enhancer, the skilled person would have been represented with an undue burden
‘selecting the appropriate bioavailability enhancer. The functional definition is thus
insulficienty disciosed (An. 83 EPC) and has to be deleted.

Regarding the three conditions 1) - 3) as incicated for the adaptogens above,
conditions 2) and 3) are not fuliled for the term of "bioavailablty enhancers”

2) Unaware of the administration route and a specific compound whose absorption
through administration could be measured, the skilled person could not devise any
test or procedure measuring the enhancement of bioavailability.

3) No structure o any enhancer of bioavailability has been provided.



Dee” 23.02.2015 ome 8 Aomeaton ne 09 769 808.8

The term “bioavailability enhancers” has to be deleted entirely (claims and
description).

Inconciseness / Stacked / sots of proferred features

When entering the regional phase before the EPO as designated / elected office, the
‘applicant has considerably reduced the number of claims compared to the orginal
Claims. Claims which have various layers of preferred features stacked upon each
‘other, or sets of uitferent preferred features, drafted withthe intention to save claims
fees, are considered unclear (Art. 84 EPC). In particular, independent claims with
‘optional features are unclear. An objection arises in particular where there is a
‘muttipicity of alternative within a single claim, which renders it unduly burdensome 10
‘determine the matter for which protection is sought (Guidelines, F-IV, 5., Art. 84 EPC)
To overcome this objection, each preterred feature has to be made the object of a
dependent claim

This objection is raised against claim 11 which is a merger of originally fied claims
10-12, wherein the latter already contained optional features which were inconcise as
such (Art. 84 EPC). Claim 11 thus has up to four layers of optional features with a total
of ten different groups of embodiments, each group having between 2 and many more
‘embodiments.

Percentages:
The percentages of claims 2, 4, 7 are not identified as being on a volume or weight,
basis, and further itis unclear whether they reter to a liquid extract of unknown
‘concentration or on a dry substance basis. In consequence, those claims are unclear
(Art, 84 EPC) and not ieiting in any way.

The same objection is raised against ciaim 6 since it refers to "30% AKBA while not
indicating whether this is referring to a weight or dry matter concentration.

The applicant has indicated in its leter dated 24-10-2012 that the examples use
‘weight % and thus the claims were clear. The claims are not limited through the
disclosure of the examples, as the application itself sets out on p18§3 ("are not to limit
the scope of the invention’). The claims have to Gearly define the scope of protection
‘sought, which is currently not the case. Ifthe applicant believes that the examples
provide a general basis under Art. 123(2) EPC, then it should limit the claims
‘accordingly and at the same time provide a proper basis under Ar. 129(2) EPC.

‘Aso, the applicant only addressed halt of the objection, viz. the “weight %" objection,
‘but not the objection "liquid vs. dry substance”, which is also maintained,



ome

ue deme
ee 9 ‘eietan 09 769 808.8

‘Adaptation of the description

‘The description has to be brought into conformity with the scope of the claims (Art. 84
EPC). Care should be taken during revision, especially of the introductory portion and
‘of any statements of problem or advantage, not to add subject-matter which extends
beyond the content of the application as originally filed (Article 123(2) EPC).

‘Amendments should be made by filing replacement pages. Unnecessary recasting of
the description should be avoided. An amended abstract is not required. The applicant
should also take account of the requirements of Rule 50(1) EPC. No handwritten
‘amendments can be submitied (Rule 4918) EPC) Preferably, a copy showing all
‘amendments accompanied by a clean typed copy should be submited.

Miscellaneous,

In claim 1 the A. marmelos “extract(s) oF fraction(s) or pure isolate(s)" of claim 1 as
fied has been limited to "Aegle marmolos Bael frit ethanol extract”.

{in relation to “Boswollia serrata’, a limitation to "extract or fraction” has been made in
Claim 1. Dependent claims 2, 4, 7 use a diferent language and are thus wider in
‘scope than claim 1, which is unclear (Art. 84 EPC),

In claim 9 there should be a comma after “ant-oxidants”

‘The applicant should delete all occurrences of the relative term ‘about’, where this
term refers to a range or to range limits (Art. 84 EPC and Guidelines F-IV, 4.7).

‘The applicant should delete all statements similar to ‘incorporated herein by
reference’ (Guidolines F-Ill, 8)

4.Unpatentable Matter (Art. 53/c) EPC)

Roferences to methods for treatment in the description should be deleted (Art. 53(c)
EPC),

‘S.Novolty (Art 54/1) and (2) EPC)



om oe sorte
Ome” 23.02.2015 ow Nepemonte 09 769 808.8
ae rome Sona

No objection.

‘inventive Step (Art. $6 EPC)

‘Topical conditions, wrinkles

‘As a corollary to the objection raised in section 3 above with the same ttle, claim +
does not sufficierity disclose a solution over the whole scope of claim 1 in relation to
“topical conditions” and thus doos not solve the technical problem of providing a
successtul treatment for those topical conditions, but only solves the less
Sophisticated technical problem of providing a composition comprising herbal extracts,
\which is immediately obvious over D1 disclosing a 30%-AKBA Boswellia serrata
‘extract and D11 combined with D4, as set out in both the Extended Search Opinion
(ESOP) and the last communication.

Other specitic diseases
For the other diseases mentioned in claim 1, viz. asthma, allergic rhinitis, hay fever,
'ype-1 hypersensitivity, mild allergies, eczema, psoriasis, the folowing apples:

Rogarding synergy, the applicant ints latest letter dated 17-04-2014 incicated the
following arguments:

Example 11

5 ugimL of 5-loxin was tested in example 11 (Division: compare p20L1-2). On p203 it
read “Similar experiment was also conducted with Aegle marmelos, Zinger officinale
‘and G. mangostana extracts.” from which it could be concluded that extracts of the
latter plants were also present at 5 ugimi of “individual ingredients”

Example 14

Example 14 referred back to exampe 11 stating the experimental procedure
described in Example 11 [was] repeated with composition-t comprising S-loxin and
bael and composition comprising 5-oxin and ginger. it would be clear tothe skiled
person that the same concentration (5 ugimL) and procedure was in Example 14 as in
Example 11



omen oe ome
Be” 23.02.2015 ome 1 ‘atone 09 769 808.8
= rod emante

Examples 15 and 16 employed 10 ug/ml of the test composition or the individual
Ingredients and was a further indication that in example 14 composition-1 was used at
5 ugimL only

The applicant also discusses the resuits of example 15 (+ fig. 6) and example 16 (+
fig. 7), of which only example 15 is relevant since example 16 relates to
Compositon-2 which does not comprise Aegie marmelos but ginger extract,

‘The applicant stated that “clearly the results show that a greater amount of inhibition in
expression of FLAP, 5-LOX and Cys-LT1 is observed" compared to the single
ingredients.

‘The results at least supported “an improved etect (ie a different effect).

Tho argument rolating to the values of compositions administered in example 11 10 be
always § ug/ml. can be accepted since in the description in examples 14-16 the
‘correct approach to measure synergy was applied and this indeed seems to be the
approach taken in the application.

When taking the average inhibition values for the individual ingredients in examples.
11 and 14 and comparing them to the inhibiten values for Composition-1 which tails
within the scope of claim 1 indeed a tendency to have a greater than adctive effect,
which at least points to synergy.

‘Synergy can thus be accepted for the above named diseases.

‘Since synergy is a feature essential for inventive step, it has to be re-instated in aim
1 under both Art 84 and 56 EPC, as woll as under Art. 123(2) EPC (compare section
1 above).

‘Since the prior art does not disclose the combination and does not disclose any
‘motivation oF hint to combine the two individual ingredients of A. marmelos and
Boswolia serrata extracts, and since synergy is present, an inventive step can be
acknowledged.

‘Conclusion

‘This communication identifies patentable subject-matter. Limiting the application
thereto (ie particutarly overcoming all objections raised in section 3 above) would
make a grant likely (Art 97(1) EPC). Otherwise, a refusal under Art. 97(2) EPC would
be the probable outcome.

