‘702-EP-PT EP App N° 04 $04 019.0

Composition for improving skin, hair and coat health.

The present invention pertains 10 a composition for preventing, decreasing and/or treating
skin and haicicoat disorders or damayes, such as is effected by inflammatory reactions,
ccavironmental factors, ageing oF cancer. In particular, the present invention relates w the
‘we of flavanones compounds or their derivatives in nutritional, cosmetic oF
pharmaceutical compositions for improvement of human or pet animal skin and coat
conditions.

Background of the invention

‘The most prominent epithelial tissue in iving beings isthe skin, which represents the
largest organ in the organism, ‘The system of skin integument, which comprises the
epidermis, dermis and the stratum cormcum, corclates with those of intemal organs and
‘concurrently interacts with the surroundings ing the interface between the environment
and organism iself, the skin is heavily influenced by extemal facts and also variable
parameters of the organism's inner system. he skin's regulative mechanisms need,
‘erefore, always be active to induce systemic changes necessary to maintain normal

‘pathological events concerning skin integument morphology and activities,

‘A great deal of processes assuring the adequate consumption of increased alMuence of
‘energetic and plastic substances according 10 the skin's needs become guarantors of
morphological and functional stability of skin structures. So, the state of integuments
determines the realization of metabolic processes necessary for skin cell viability and
sctivity leading to the presence of healthy skin peculiarities such as barrier function,
‘lanticity, turgor propertis, humidity, pigmentation ete

During the lifetime of a living being different signs, characteristic of ageing, appear on the
skin or hair, with the principal clinial signs being the appearanee of fine lines and docp
wrinkles which increase or are accentuated with age. lows of hair, reduced hair density,

_lossiness, color, olness, fiber diameter, ete



7702-1. EP App N° 04 4040190

‘These signs of ageing are even promoted by exposure of the skin and hair to exogenous
V-radiation, pollutant, ffee radicals or chemical substances,

influences, suet as

In the art several means have been proposed to prevent destructive effects of environment

‘or acing on skin cpithelial cells. For example, means to prevent skin deterioration oF
ageing is to provide compounds scavenging free radicals, In this respect EP 0 761 214
discloses singlet oxygen quenchers comprising aniline deri

ives and difurfury! amine
derivatives, which are reported to reduce the oxidative stress to the skin. In this respect, JP
2002.029978 A discloses that the combined use of witus extracts based on eriocitrin and
vitamin C as froe radical scavenger,

————————

‘exponsibte ofthis effect.

Although the
coat health, there still exists @ need in the

skin and hair or

‘sa great diversity of active compounds for ameliorat

to provide new act
particular, an abjeet of the present invent

is to provide compositions that may be used

over a long period of time by humans or pets, and susceptible to be provided in the form

‘Fa nutritional supplement, for example a nutritional composition,

‘Summary of the invention

In a first aspect, the present invention relates in claim 1 uo a meitonal-eonmelie-or
pharmaccwtical composition for oral agininisration fochuman-or-pets, which contains as
active compound, at least one Mavanone compound ors derivatives, oF a mixture thereof
‘in-an-efficient amount-40 prevent ieal-or-allevinte-skin_hait-andior-eaat-divorder and
ameliorate-shin—hoir-cndcomt-hewlth-selecied from esperetin_and_hesperctin-7-0-
slucuronide for use in reducing cell death.

The present invention also relates in claim 2 t0 a composition for oral administration,
which contain as active mgrediont, at ant one Navanon gonypeund shat sexpert for


770241

vt UIP App N" 04 OF 019.0
ss in preventing andor cating inflammation,

In another aspect, the invention provides the use the compounds of claims (Land 2 oF at
eant-one-flavanome-or-te derivatives oF sinturer thereof, as active compound in the
Preparation of a nutritional, coninetic or pharmaccutical composition intended. for
[proventing otto) shih, Hie anderen diners shim aneloanatinge shan hea
conditions iv rumans-or pots the spss claimed eflests,

The composition according to the present invention may be in the form of a complete
nutritional formula, a dictary supplement 10 be orally administered w a human or an
animal, ora compound for pharmaceutical use.

Ade
improved skin health, cp. on photoprotection, hydration, dryness, firmness, thickness,
clasticity, oilness, regular pigmentation, immunity or hair and coat health, ey. improving hair
and cout yloss, hair density, color, oilnes. ameliorating har fibre diameter, sebum production,
slossyncy and preventing hair nd coat las. Also, the composition according to the present
invention is administered to a human or an animal, for ameliorating antioxidant states,

ing to « human oF pot animal, « food composition as described above, enuls in an

barrice function, to prevent of modulate oxidative stats, scbum production oF
composition, oF 10 reduce signs of agcing. 1 alo helps to reduce risks of cancer oF
inflammation

Detailed description ofthe invention
According to the first objec, the invention provides a nutedionahconmetie—or
shermeceutiel compotion for ara -adeiniirteon-for-haman-oepeli-nhich-vomainean
tive compound ten one avenue compound ori derivativec wsninanesderaoh,
‘9-00 eficiontarmoun-40-prevent-Areat-o-aloval skin hair andi coat-dnonder-oF
damnagen-and-thes-ameliorate-skin_hair and-coet-heulth according vo claim 1.

The flavanone compounds of interest are natural slycoxides that ean be found principally


02-EP-EPT LEP App N° 04 804 0190,

fin fruits from the genus Citnis, such as orange, lemon, bitter orange, jrapet
‘example or in a lesser exicnd in other vegetables. They are present in majority in the peel

for

‘of the fruit, but also in large amounts in the pulp and thus also in citrus fruit jue. ‘The
‘compounds according to the present invention maybe tosacuranetia,— nari
hespendin, eF-enodwiyeh ponvitin, neaeriositein, for-enampley and their ity derivatives
selected tro their alone Gann chaleone form glycosylated form oF nethyhoed
forme-naunsly-espsrchin_and hespsrstin-7-O-ylucuronids. Abo, thee sulfated-or The
hicuronidated forms which are found as product of metabolism in blood are used.

e-atastanpee derivatives nay he obtained by several pracennenknownin-theari-sieh as
eeymatic-trtimenis Hor example, glucose-7-hesperetin is prepared by rhamnoxidase oF
bhesperidinase treatments which are known enzymatic treat
