PATENT
IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE,

In re Application of a GOKARAJU et al.
Examiner Melenie Lee McCormick
AMENDMENT

Mail Stop Amendment
Commissioner for Patents
P.O. Box 1450
Alexandria, VA 22313-1450
Sir

In response to the Office Action dated September 26, 2011, please amend the
aboveridentified application as set forth below:

/MQUSIMIAMENDMENTS begin on page 2 of this paper.

REMARKS/ARGUMENTS begin on page 10 of this paper.


Application No. 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3026

‘This listing of claims will replace all prior versions and listings of elaims in

the application.
Listing of Claims:

@M@uFFeREYaMeNdedy Anti-adipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement
‘supplements for inhibiting er preventing or controlling adipegenesis-anehpolysts
involved -diseases-in-mammals, comprising an extract or-purified-fraction derived
from Holoptelea integrifolia alone or a composition comprising said extract or
fraetion optionally in combination with at least one antiobesic agent;

id ext
swith water or a polar organic salvent:
said extract being present in an amount which is effective for inhibiting or
controlling obesity, overweight, or hyperlipidemia in mammals.

2, (Canceled)
8. (Currently amended) ‘The anti-adipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 1, wherein said extract or purified fraction or a

composition comprising said extract or fraction is used as such.

4, (Canceled)



Application No.! 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 8026

Claims 5-15. Canceled)

16. (Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 1, wherein said extract or-purified-fraetion or a
composition comprising said extract or fraction is formulated into a nutraceutical or

pharmaceutical dosage form along with biologically acceptable excipients.

17. Currently amended) ‘The antivadipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 16, wherein the dosage form is a nutraceutical or
pharmaceutical dosage form suitable for oral administration, and is selected from
the group consisting of tablets, soft capsules, hard capsules, pills, granules,
powders, emulsions, suspensions, syrups, and pellets,

18, (Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement

supplements as claimed in claim 16, wherein said nutraceutical or pharmaceutical
dosage form is suitable for parenteral administration, and is selected from the

group consisting of eweh-as injections, drops, and suppositories.

19. Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement
‘upplements as claimed in claim 16, wherein said nutraceutical or pharmaceutical

dosage form is in the form of a dietary formulation selected from the group

consisting of foods for specified health uses.



Application No. 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3026

20. (Currently amended) The antivadipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement
‘supplements as claimed in claim 1, wherein the extract or purified fraction derived
from Holoptelea integrifolia is prepared by:

a) extracting dried Holoptelea integrifolia eaves plant-parte with water
or an a polar organic solvent or @ mixture thereof to produce an extract solutions

») filtering the extract solution through fine filters to produce a filtrate:

©) evaporating said filtrate to remove solvent to obtain a concentrated
extract,

purifying the concentrated extract to obtain said extract or purified
fraction’ and

© optionally mixing the extract or purified fraction with an anti-obesic

agent or antioxidant or biorenhancer in a blender.

21. Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 20, wherein extracting dried Holoptelea
integrifolia plant parts comprises extracting the dried Holoptelea integrifolia plant
parts with an organic solvent selected from the group consisting of polar organic
solvents selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol,
isopropanol, n-butanol, isobutanol, tert-butanol, dimethyl ketone, methyl ethyl

ketone, and methyl isobutyl ketone:-and-nom-polar-organic-solvente-selested-from



Application No. 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3026

group-ronsisting-of-methyl-aeciate ethyl acctate. butyl acetates and-chethy!

22, (Currently amended) ‘The anti-adipogenie and provlipolytic herbal supplement
‘supplements as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one antiobesic agent is
selected from the group consisting of the extracts or powders of Garcinia cambogia,
green tea, green coffee bean, eucalyptus plant extract, double salt of (-
hydroxycitrie acid derived from Garcinia species, Gymnema syivestre extract,
Banaba extract, carnitine, Phaseolus vulgaris extract, bitter orange (Citrus
aurantium) extract, Chitosan, Conjugated linoleic acid, Glucomannan (Konjac plant
extract), Green coffee bean extract, Caralluma extract, Hoodia Gordonii extract,
Commiphora mukul gum resin extract, Zingiber officinalis extract, Allium sativa

extract, chromium (111) complexes, DHEA, and 7-Keto-DHEA.

25. Withdrawn) A method for treating or preventing obesity or hyperlipedemia
in a patient, comprising:

administering a herbal supplement according to claim 1 to said patient,
wherein the herbal supplement is administered as @ nutraceutical or
pharmaceutical dosage form selected from the group consisting of a food, a

beverage, an oral dosage form, or a parenteral dosage form.



Application No.' 12/674,113,
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3026

24, (Withdrawn) A method for lowering plasma triglyceride in a patient,
comprising:

‘administering a herbal supplement according to claim 1 to said patient,
wherein the herbal supplement is administered as a nutraceutical or
pharmaceutical dosage form selected from the group consisting of a food, a

beverage, an oral dosage form, or a parenteral dosage form.

25. (Currently amended) The antiradipogenic and _provlipolytic supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an effective amount of at
least one pharmaceutically or nutritionally or dietetically acceptable antioxidant,
adaptogen, antirinflammatory agent, anti-diabetic agent, _bio-protectant,

bioavailability enhancer, trace metal, or mixture thereof to form a formulation.

26. (Currently amended) The anti

ipogenic and pro-lipolytic supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 1, wherein the extract or purified fraction derived
from Holoptelea integrifolia is administered to a mammal in the form of a
therapeutic formulation or food or beverage in a range from 0.01 to 300 mg/kg

weightiday.

27. (Withdrawn) A method of treating obesity and, adipogenesis and lipolysis
involved diseases in mammals comprising administering toa mammal in need

thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a Holoptelea integrifolia extract or



Application No. 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3026

purified fraction or a composition comprising said Holoptelea integrifolia extract or

purified fraction, optionally in combination with at least one anti-obesic agent,

28, (Currently amended) The antivadipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement

1d fraction or a

claimed in claim 22 2, wherein said extract or puri

‘composition comprising said extract or fraction is used as such.

29. (Currently amended) The antiradipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement
supplements as claimed in claim 22 2, wherein said extract or purified fraction or a
composition comprising said extract or fraction is formulated into a nutraceutical or

pharmaceutical dosage form along with biologically acceptable excipients.

30. (Currently amended) The anti-adipogenic and _pro'lipolytic herbal
supplement s#pplements as claimed in claim 16, wherein said dosage form is a
nutraceutical dosage form is in the form of a dietary formulation selected from the
group consisting of chocolate bars: nutritional bars: creams: jams: gels: beverages
selected from the group consisting of coffee, tea, milk-containing beverages, and
lactic acid bacteria-containing beverages: candies, chewing gums, chocolates,
gummy candies, yoghurt, ice cream, puddings, soft adzuki-bean jellies, jellies, and

cookies.



y Application No.! 12/674,113,
Attorney Docket No.: LIX 3026

81 (New) An anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement, comprising an
extract derived from Holoptelea integrifolia alone or a composition comprising said
extract optionally in combination with at least one antiobesic agenti
said extract being obtained by extraction of Holoptelea integrifolia leaves
with water or a polar organic solvent:
said extract being present in a dosage ranging between 0.01 mg/kg
wweight/day and 300 mg/kg weight/day, said dosage being effective for:
8) inhibiting adipogenesis in mammals;
) promoting lipolysis in mammals; or

©) both inhibiting adipogenesis and promoting lipolysis in mammals.

32 (New) An anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement according to
claim 1, wherein:

said extract derived from Holoptelea integrifolia is a bioenriched extract
obtained by:

a) extracting Holoptelea integrifolia leaves with water or a first polar

organic solvent to produce a first extracts

») loading said first extract onto a chromatography column

@ washing said chromatography column with waters

©) eluting said column with a second polar organic solvent to produce an

elutant and

) evaporating said polar organic solvent from the elutant to produce said

bioenriched extract,



Application No.! 12/674,113
Attorney Docket No. LIX 3026

33. (New) An anti-adipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement according to

claim 82, wherein said second polar organic solvent is aqueous methanol

34. (New) An anti-adipogenic and provlipolytic herbal supplement according to

claim 32, wherein said second polar organic solvent is 80% aqueous methanol.

33. (New) An anti-adipogenic and pro-lipol

herbal supplement according to
claim 1, wherein said effective amount ranges between 0.01 mg/kg weight/day and

300 mg/kg weight/day.

87. (New) An anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement according to
claim 1, wherein said supplement contains 1% to 100% by weight of said extract

derived from Holoptelea integrifolia
