beled + 0-07-2012.

IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE.
Ine United Stats Patent Applications} 449-103
)
Applicants; Ste, Manish » cont.nas 1510
)
)
Application —12519.137 aun 48s
November 28, 2007 } euminer: Cla, Any Lyon
,
HERBAL FORMULATION ) Customer No
FORWOUNDHEALING)
>
>
>

"cy oi dt i hl ne

RESPONSE TO OFFICE COMMUNICATION
IN US. PATENT APPLICATION NO. 12819,137

‘Commissioner for Patents
PO. Box 1450
Alexandsia,

inia 22313-1450

Sir,
The following amendments are being submited in response to the April 10, 2012 Office Action

9 with the above-identi

sd US. Patent Application, finally ejecting the claims, These
amendments are being submitted within two months from the mailing of the April 10, 2012 Office
Action, As June 10, 2012 was 2 Sunday, this Response is timely filed within two months of receipt of
‘an Office Action finally rejecting the claims.

‘Amendments tothe claims are presented in Section I. Remarks are presented in Section I


Please amend Claims 7, and cancel Claims 17, st forth inthe following listing ofthe claims.
Claims Listing

1-6. Cancelled,

7. (Currently Amended) A topical wound healing formulation useful for eating infections and
‘hon. non-healing wounds comprising
i) anefieetive amount 4 107 % by weight of an aqueous extract of bark of Azadivaclua indica;
li) 05 to 46 by weight aneffective- smount of an extract ofthe following herbs:
4) root of Berberis arstata ox MBerberis vulgaris,
Hoot oF Creme tones
be) stem of Glveyrrhiza glabra,
<8) stem, leaves or flowers of Jasminum officinale,
de) thizomes of Picrorhiza kurroa,
€f) seeds or leaves of Pongamia pinata,
{a) stem of Rubia condita,
Bh) thizomes of Saussurea lappa,
i fruits of Terminatia chebula,
Pains orleaves of Fricosantherdioeia,
1k) fruits of Capsicum, and
BD flowers of Stellarawilld; and
9 & by wei tract of Curcum

iv) 6-9 & by weight of an extract of fruits or leaves of Tricosanthes diocia: and

{x4 a mixture of two or more oils, sid mixture comprising one or more adjuncts selected

from the group consisting of thickening agents, preservatives, coloring agents, decolorizng agents,
fragrances, opacifiers, vitamins and combinations thereof, wherein the components are present in an
‘amount sulfisient so sat wounds selected from the group consisting of diabetic foot ulcer, drv and wet

gangrene, venous ulcer, varicose veins, war wounds, bum wounds and post-operative wounds,

8. Previously presented) The formulation according o claim 7, wherein-said extract of herbs is
an il or alcohol extract.



9. Cancelled)

10. (Currently Amended) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said two or more ols
are selected from the group consisting of castor oil, mustard oil, coconut oil, black sesame
mixtures thereof.

11. (Currently amended) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said two or more oils
are present in equal ratios.

12. (Previously Presented) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said preservative
comprises copper sup

13. Previously Presented) The formulation acconding to claim 7, wherein said thickening agent
comprises bee wax.

14, (Previously Presented) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said decolorizing
agents comprise activated charcoal, Fuller's earth, or combinations thereof,

15, (Previously Presented) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said adjuncts
‘comprise Calcium D-Saccharate,

16. (Previously Presented) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said opacifiers
‘comprise Serlite, Bentonite, Magnesium oxide, or combinations thereof.

17. (Cancelled)

18. (Previously presented) The formulation according to claim 7, wherein said formulation
comprises:

0.25 % by weight of said preservatives;

16 t0 7% by weight of said thickening agent.

19. (Previously presented) The formulation acconding to claim 7, wherein said formulation is

‘used in preventing amputations



2 a Op Se

20, (Withdrawn) A process for preparing the topical wound healing formulation of claim 7,
‘comprising the steps.

preparing an aqueous extract by taking water and dry bark of Azadirachta indica ina ratio of 16
parts water to 1 part of bark, boiling the same to reduce the water to 1/Ath the original concentration
and filtering the same;

preparing oil mixture by mixing eastor oil, mustard oil, coconut oil and black sesame ol in
equal ratios to each othe

adding o the oil mixture appropriate quantities of dry powdered parts or alcohol extracts of one
for more of the herbs Berberis avisiata, Curcuma longa, Glyeyrrhiza glabra, Jasminum officinale,

Picrorhiza kurrooa, Pongamia pinnata, Rubia cordifolia, Saussurea lappa, Terminalia chebula,

Trichosanthes diocia, Capsicum, Stellata wild, Ilnicarpus fratesscens and Sumplocos racemosa
adding the aqueous extract of Azadirachta indica to the o-herb mixture in a ratio of 4:1 10
form an oil-water mixture:
boiling the oil-water mixture untill the water evaporates completely; and

‘optionally, adding one or adjunct components selected from the group consi

ing of thickeners,

preservatives deodorizing agents, coloring agents, fragrances, opaifiers and vitamins.

21, (Withdrawn) A method of topically healing wounds, comprising applying an effective
amount ofthe formulation of Claim 7 to a wound in need of healing.

22, (Withdrawn) The method of Claim 21, wherein topical application of the formulation
prevents amputation,

23. (Withdrawn) The method of Claim 21, wherein the wound is selected from the group
consisting of diabetic wound, diabetic foot ulcers, dry gangrene, wet gangrene, venous ulcers, varicose

veins, war wounds, bums, and post-operative wounds,
