Compositions containing:

ned by extraction with

)lipophitic extract of Zingiber officinale ob

s carbs

dioxide under supereritical conditions: and

b) extract of Cynara seulymus,

2 Compositions as claimed in claim 1, cor

ning the two components

within the following weight ranges:

a) lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale: 1 0 25 mg: and
to b) extract of Cynara scolymus: $0 to 200 mg.

3. Compositions as claimed in claims 1 and 2. containing the wo

components in the following weight ami

a) lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale: 12.5 ay

by extract of Cynara scolymus: 100 mg.

ed in claim 1, 2 oF 3 wherein the extraet of

Is 4. Compositions as elain

on from the

Cynara scolymus is obtained by ext 1 parts of the plant

\with an alvohol or water-aleohol solvent and f

sionation on a resi,

Compositions as claimed in elviny I, 2 or 3 in which the extract of

Cynara scolymus cont

ns nat less than 20% of eafTeoytquinie acids, not kes

20 than $% of flavouoids and not fess than $% oF eynaropierin,

6. Compositions according to the above claims, for oral administration.

7. Compositions as claimed in claim 6 in the form of sof gelatin eapoutes
‘or cellulose capsules suitable to contain oily substanees.
8 Thease of

2s 2) lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale obtained by extraction with

carbon dioxide under supercritical conditions: and

b) extract of Cynara seolymus

foe the preparation of a composition for the reduction of postpr


drowsiness
9. The use of
2) lipophilic extract of Zingiberofficinate obtained by extraction with
carbon dioxide under supercritical conditions: and
b) extract of Cynara scalymus
for the preparation of a composition having prokinetic and anti

dyspeptic activities.


Pienuled (Deseaiphion

wo mien PeriermewMeans

COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING A_LIPOPHILIC EXTRACT OF

KER _OFFICINA D
SCOLYMUS, WHICH ARE USEYUL FOR THE PREVENTION AND
TREATMENT OF OESOPHAGEAL REFLUX AND _YRRETABLE
BOWEL SYNDROME

‘Summuary of the invention

‘The present invention relates to

combination of a lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale and am extract of

Cynara scolyms, Which to Vt TT
‘AasoplugesLcatiin sndinisable bowel sjilibine, aai/t6 reduce postprandial

drowsiness

Pri

Cancer ofthe gastrointestinal tact i the second most common form of
ceancer, and the second-hiphest cause of death whom this acca ss affected.
osophagus and stomach cancer are not very common in the industrialised
counties, but are extremely lethal

[A number of contributory causes have been ilentified for these (wo
tumours, such as abuse of spirits, often combined with smoking, a niteas-rich
diet, and/or products or habits that break the macus barrice inthe stomach and
‘ocsophagus. Following examination of eating habits and deficiencics of some
trace elements i populations from different continents (Plummer Vinson and

Patersoa-Kelly syrdromes), attempts have been made to prevent the onset of

ccarcinoms of the stomach and oesophagus due tos
‘modifying cating habits and lifestyles, and using medicinal or diet products,
ted, the global

contributory enuses by

Although many of ssid contributory causes have been elimi

incidence has increased because of an increase in the number of people

‘suffering from gasto-oesophageal reflux, often associated with diet and/or


20

0 anna PC pRpoNWoaAs
2

hintus hemia, which is one of the main causes of oesophageal tumours.

Adenocarcinoma is mnitested by dysplastic columasr epitheliun in the distal

part of the oesophagus, nearly always in the presence of chronic reflux and

gistric metaplasia of the epithelium (Bserot’s oesophagus), which are

common in obexe individuals, and becomes malignant in vver 50% oF cases,

11s therefore very important to reduce the incidence of this disorder.

Resoarch iv consequently oriented towards drups able te reduce rofl,

especially by modilying gastric voiding. In particular, researchers. are
drug

attempting to develop weil tolerated natural prokincties, as the potenti

will have to be taken ehonically for many years on a preventive basis, or
discontinuously, depending on digestive requirements
However, many drugs which have heen usa recently Wo modify gastric

Voiding present serious side effects affecting the CNS or have « carcinogenic

action, and have therefore either heen, oF ure about to be, withdrawn from the:

market, Gastro-oesophageal reflux is currently treated with a cocktail of devs

suck as proton pump inhibitors (ranitidine, -prazoles or simple antacids),

enzymes, vations digestive drugs, aml prokineties such as domperidone.

term use of proton pump inhibitors often leads 1 major

digestive problems.

is consequently now oriented towards

ww theeapestic
sppeoaces,

Irvitable bowel syndrome affects up to 9¥% of the population in
industrialised countries. 1 is @ psychosomatic disorder, and is trend with
antidepressants, anti-inflammatories, probiotics and other deugs, depending on
its severity and duration, Iitable bowel syudrome is mainly exacerbated by
stress, inadequate diet, and inflammatory states of various origins. {tis also

influenced by the state of the stomach. ‘The presence of esophageal rellux

ed it

often worsens the conditions assoc

<pease inserY pye Za>

irritable bowel syndrome,


w

1s

Page
WO 2008070783 A2, D2 I: 198 $9 499 AI and WO 20081074080 A1

disclose ginger extract preparations useful for tt

1s dyspepsia, travel sickness,

nausea, vomiting and irritable bowel syndrome, he extracts

re obtained by
supercritical eatbon dionide extraction,

PHY TOTHERAPY RESEARCH : PTR FEB 2001, vol. 15, 09. 1

‘oruary
2001 (2001-02), puues 58-61, WO 2008/107183 AL. WO 2007/006391 A2 and

WO 03013562 AL disclose preparations containing Cynara senlymus

hydroaleoholic extracts puritied on an adsorption resin column and their use in the

table bowel syndrome and dyspepsia

er

is hy Dat iat Mita Vl. 2 (at IV 1995,
homaraj Srikrsnads Prakasa, Mumbai 4, pag. 181, dschses 3 Gumalatin
"containing, Zingiber afte Roscoe (garden winger, Ging) a8 the only actives
_cpinrion sei in the sat ayspepsiaos of eps,

“Avasthiyary Agathe Within 600, PubAtal, Anonymous, nag. fO%, 25

| discloses « formulation Containing Zincber officinale Roscoe (eardon gingst,
‘ings asthe only ative nareticnt use inthe weatment of by pri
| Smksradajtespaes Ayebhisska - Gajanti Paid (Uindustans No
a





2

wo 20v0nmns Peoreraeinnans

Deseription of the favention

11 has now been found that a combination comprising, « lipophilic

extract of Zingiber officinale, prepared by extraction with carbon dioxide

under supercritical conditions, and an extract of Cynara scolymus, performs a

surprising prokinetic and antidyspeptic activity, accelerating gas
‘emptying, eliminating flatulence and improving the digestive function, Aly’
(Posbinatinn accotding to the invention-is therefore useful forthe preveation/
pad seeatineat ob oscophagealsetlan and stable bowel eyadenine/

The preseat invention thorofore relates to compositions containing
8) lipophitic extract of Zingiber officinale, and
»»
for the incroase of gastric emptying, for the prevention and
Aovcapiayostrofiin/ gnsttic voiding. ht weriablebowel sysdresival Mo cos

the ability to increase gastric voiding significantly reduces post-prandial

‘ynara seolymus extract,

catment of

drowsiness, thus elimi

tng the problems associated with it

More specifically, according to the invention, the tipophitic extract of
Zingiber officinale will be prepared by extraction from the roots and rhizomes
cof the plant with carbon dioxide under supercritical conditions, powder being
extracted from the root in an extractor at pressures of between 230 and 260
bars, preferably 235 bars, and 2 temperature of between 40 and 60°C,
preferably 50°C, for atime ranging between | and 10 hours, preferably seven
hours; the extract is collected in the condenser and dehydrated in inert gas
dissolved in a-hexane or heptane, and concentrated under vacuum at a
temperature not exceeding 40°C. Said extract contains approx. 30% gingerols,

and can be used directly in the formulations according to the invention. The

Cynara scolymus extract will be prepated by conventional methods, for

‘example by extraction from the acrial parts of the plant with an alcohol or

‘ater-alcohol solvent and optional fractionation on resin.


ey

2s

wo smnnsir6s Permrarewuns
4

Vhe roots and chizomes of ginger (Zingiber officinale), tcated in

various ways, are used, expecially in Asia and the Middle Fast, as spices and

in traditional medicine to teat indigestion, Matulence, diarshoes, coughing

fang, © a lesser extent, 19 protect the mucous membranes, against

inflammation, to

sat urinary incontinence, et
The active components present in the lipophilic extract of Zingiber
officinale mainly consist of gingerols (generally present in concentrations

ranging between 1U and 15%), which possess an anti-dyspeplic, anti-nausea

and anti-vomiting activity, and are wsefol for the treatment of motion sickness,
belching, indigestion, coli, vomiting, dyspepsia and stomach end colon pin
However, recent clinical trials have demonstrated that the lipophilic extract of
Zingiber officinale prepased by traditional methods presents low wetivity in

view of the well-known chemical instability of iagerols; the US

pharmacopocia therefore recommends a complete review of the properties

au it due to the Jack of eonvine!

evidence, The gingerols

ibuted to the p

ined in the lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale prepared by
traditional methods break down rapidly, giving rise to a series of compounds,

uch as shogaol and other products of oxidation, whieh a

Alevoid of etficsey
‘These conflicting data are partly duc to the instability of the active
components in the extracts normally used, However, the extract used ia the
preseat invention i a lipophilic extract, stabilised anul prepared with carbon
dioxide under well-defined supercritical eonditions. The Zineiber officinale
extract accelerates gustre emptying, eliminating postprandial nausea by
blaneing the adverse efleet of the former and completing the therapestic
fect.

Antichoke (Cynara scolymus) extracts are known for their choleretic,
cholagogic and ant-dyspeptic action, but often cannot be used by patients

sulfering from irritable bowel syndrome because they worsen the alternation



1s

2

‘wo nnwonnn reverneenes
s

of constipation and darchoea asa rau of the cholerotic effect; they also slow

gastric voiding and the digestive function.

The Cynara scolymus extracts which can be advantagcossly used
according tothe invention have a contcat in three classes of substances in a
pre-determined ratio: cuffeoylguinic acids, flavonoids derived from luteolin,
and cyraropicrin. Caffeoylquinic acids cxert a cholerctic and kverprotccting
effect, flavonoids have a blood-lipid-reducing effect associated with
cholestrol synthesis, and eynaropicrin possesses an anti-inflammatory action
due to interaction with miclear Factor NERB and TNs

The artichoke extract preferably contains not less than 20%
caffeoylquinie acids, not less than 5% Mavonoids, and aot loss than 5%

ceynaropicrin.

of these two extracts unpredictably reduces both gastro-cesophageal

Aigestive function

Jn paticnts suffering from irritable
dyspepsia resistant to the combination of p
symptoms rapidly disappeared after,
according, to the invention, with
life. This activity is not attgtable to either of the two components taken
separately,

In fact, a8
action of |

ly stated, the choleretic, cholagoyic and anti-dyspeptic,
‘extracts often cannot be used in patients with irritable
, ecause the choleretic ffect worsens the alternation of

‘of constipation and diarrhoea, and reduces the rate of gastric voiding


20

as

Wo 28.0964 Perinranosonans
6

‘The present combination surprisingly improves gastric emptying, and

digestive function, possesses anti-dyspeptic activity,

prevention and treatment of gastro-oesophas and iritable bowel

syndrome, ‘Thus thes i present combination prevents the onset of

Accoré

og to & proferied aspect, the compositions according to the
invention will contain the two components within the following weight
intervals:

8) lipophilic extract of Zingiber officinale: trom | 0 25 mg; and

1b) extract of Cynara scolymus: from 50 to 200 mg.

According to # particularly prot

red aspect, the compositions will

‘contain the two componcats in the following quantities by weight:

8) lipophilic extract of Zingiber ofieinate: 12.5 mg: and
}) exact of Cynara seolymus: 100 my.
According to a preferred aspect, the lipophilic extract of Zingiber
“officinale and the Cynara scolymus extract will be formulated in vegetable oils

rich in 03/6 polyunsaturated faty acids, such as evening primrose oil

According tw further aspect, the composi

ns according to the

invention may be administered together with other substances having a useful

or complementary activity.

‘The doses which have proved active in man are I 10 25 mg of Hpophilic
extract of Zingiber officinale and 0 t0 200 mg of Cynara scolymus exteat
more partculasly, 100 mg of Cynara scolymus extract and 12.5 mg of
Zingiber officinale extrvt per dose, to be taken with every main meal oF

otherwise adapted to the disorder to be treated

The compositions according 10 the invention will be formulated
jonal methods, such as those described in “Remington's

cording to conve

Pharmaceutical Handbook", Mack Publishing Co., N.Y., USA, In particular,


10

20

as

wo 2ni0onis oneranaonns
7

the compositions according to the invention will be formulated eecording to

conventional formulation techniques for lipophilic ingredients intended for

oral administration, mainly as sublingual sablcts or soft golatin or cellulose

capsules for oils designed to disperse eapidly in the stomach. ‘The lipophilic

form uses oils rich in o-3 fatty acids, which promote rapid absorption of the

clive ingredient, 10 disperse the active components. Examples of oral

formulations are tablets, dragées, soft and hard gelatin capsules, and cellulose
‘The examples set out below farther illustrate the invention.
Example 1. Extraction of Cynara seoiyimus
Load 1000 g of dried, minced artichoke leaves into a percolator ited
with a heating jacket, and extract 5 tines with 4 £ of 70% BUOH at 70°C.
Combine the filtered percolates and concentrate undce vacuun to a dey
residue oF approx. 15% Leave to cool at ambient temperature then centrifuge
Load the supetratant solution into a column packed with 1.5 1. of
AMBERLITE™ XAD™ 7HP resin (Rohm and Haas) previously suspended in

Wash the column with 1.5 L of water, then elute with 3.75 1. of 90%

HOH. Concentrate the water-alcohol cluate until soft, and then dry at 50°C
wader vacuum for 24 hours: 824 g of purified artichoke leaf extact is
‘obtained,

HPLC titves: total caffeoylquinic acids 31.76%, total flavonoids

14.31%, eynatopicrin 17.51%.

xample 2 = Soft sles
Extract of Cynara scolymus 150 mg
Lipophilie extract of Zingiber officinale 12.5 me

Glyceryl monostearate 30mg


Womnanves

8
Soya lecithin

Evening primrose
Example 3 - Hard gelatin capsules

Unit composition:
Extract of Cynara seolymus

Lipophilic extract of Zinger officinale
Microcrystalline cellulose

Lactose

Silicon dioxide

Magnesium stearate

Prieraeinana2es

tome
700 mg

100 mg
12.5 mg
300 mg
170mg

Sime

Sime
