0

~”

(narked-up copy)
Chan 1
it a 0 blood comprising inven berry erat
saetiveingrodiont
Claim 2
The composition for fiittation of blood cliculaion according to olan 1. wherein

the wines berry eat! i prepara by adie ethanol fo dee wen bongs hollowed by

‘extraction -under- reas filtion, concentation-removal of itso

Lexraction by asding buianob and concentration,

hain §
A cormpostion for prevention oF vasetlar-agine- eoriprising iment: henry erect as
ete grein:

Chien

“The-componition or provention of vascular aging according

o-chane So ashovein the
semen erry enti pnapaed-by-aling-ethanol-4o-dried- gmoney fotowed-by

‘exaraction under -refuyy-Fitration,-conemration- removal -oF hse

heute

‘extraction by ding butanol and concen

Chains
“ oF vase in noon

Chain

he-ompontion fort

4eot-oF-sascubur-dallammation according t0-ehim-$,
wherein-the-ginsomy- berry extract iy propane by aig nol 10 dei insomybeery,

Followed by extraction under rllus, ation, concentration, ema af oibsoluble


|

Chim

‘The composition for facilitation of angiogenesis according to claim 7, wherein-the

sinsong-berry- extract prepared: by-adding-ethanol-40-dried-ginveng- berry: followed-by

10 extesetion—under—reu—Filirtion—concentration,—removal-of-oil-solubleconstitentsy
esteaction hy adie tana and wanceniration |

Chim 9

A composition for sroatment-oF ichemic-hoar-disease-comprising- ginseng barry
15 exractasetive ingredient:

Chaim to.
‘The componition for treatment oF ischemic heart disewse according 40 claim 9,
wherin-the-ischemie—heart-diseuse—is-aterioselerosis-angine-pectoris-or-myueurdial

20 infartion:

Janne hy extoction ander tetas Alison eamventnation: fem sf oF sei

constituents, eration by adding butanol and concentration,

Chien?
A-componition-for-triment-of focal bon! eiwulation-insufiieney comprising

10 ginseng berry extract as sotve ingrdion


Ea

lim 13

“The composition ieutment-oFtealblood circulation insufcieney ecording 0
ein 12, thei prepare by adding ethanol 0. de eanseme
seca ec teantaat haan nansnd cena

Claim 4

L. Use of 4 ginseng berry extract A-compesiton for improvement of skin beauty

10 comprising winseng-berry-exiract-uw-etive-ingraiont: whercin improvemsa of skin beauty

‘consists in inhibition of shin aging. improvemsnt-of skin wrinkles of skin whitening, and

wherein sid_ginseng_berry. extract is prepared by_ ation sthunol to_dry_ginseng bony,
{followed by-extraction under reflux filtration and concentration,

15 Chain ts
‘The composition Sor improvement. of skin beauty sevording to-cluim 14, which i for
inhibition of skin aging.

Chain 6
» ‘The componition for improvement of skin bosuly aeording 1o-lain-H4,sehich i for
improvement of skin wrinkles

Chae 2
“Freeones tnmmovementoisbartenty-seurdine fe lain) Hh wick ye

Chains
“The-componition for improvement oF shen boouly aeeording 16 claim’ 4 which for
skin menstutization,



Cai 49
2. "The usc eomponition-for improvement oF skin beauty according to clan | any-of
‘lems 44shrough 4, whrsin he ginseng Hy ext formula. 8 composition which
comprises 0.01-100 weight% of ginseng berry extract based on the total weight of the

5 composition

Claim 20
A composition for improvement of male-senual-funstion comin gine Berry
extract as active ingredient

Chaim 24
‘The: compostion for improvement oF mule senual-fanetion according 40 claim 20,
which further comprises Larsinine.

resition cement-oF male-sex lain 20,
‘which comprises 0.01-100 weight of ginseng berry extract based on the total weight ofthe
compen |

20 Chaim 23

“The composition for improvement of male sexual function secording 40 lui 21,

‘whichcomprises-0.01-99:9-weights—of --arginine—based-on-the-total-weight-of the
coos |

25 Chaim 24
‘Tho-compusition-for-improvement-of male sexual function-according to claims 20,

svi reser generation of attic onnie4 NO} n wane win eroticy

Chaimas

0 “The-composition for improvement-oF mule sexual funetion according: to claim 20,


a

Chaim 26
‘The-composition for improvement oF male sexual function according 4 claim 20,

