‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

REMARKS

‘This paper is in response to the Non-Final Office Action mailed August 11, 2017 (the
‘Office Action”). The foregoing section “AMENDMENTS TO THE CLAIMS” defines the
status of each claim.

Applicants respectfully request reconsideration of the application in view of the above
amendments to the claims and the following remarks. For Examiner's convenience and
teference, Applicants present remarks in the order thatthe Orfice Action raises the corresponding

In connection with the prosecution of this case and any related cases, Applicants have,

and/or may, discuss various aspects ofthe disclosure of the cited references as those references
fare thea understood by Applicants. Because such discussion could reflect an

incorrect understanding of one ot more of the references, the position of Applicants with respect

mmplete oF

to a reference is not necessarily fixed or irrevocable. Applicants thus hereby reserve the right,
bboth during and after prosecution of this case, to modify the views expressed with reyard to any

reference,

lease note that Applicants do not intend the following remarks to be an exhaustive
‘enumeration of the distinctions between any cited references and the claims. Rather, Applicants
present the distinctions below solely by way of example to illustrate some of the differences
‘between the claims and the cited references. Finally, Applicants request that Examiner carefully

y references discussed below to ensure that Applicants’ understanding and discussion

of any reference is consistent with Examiner’s understanding.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the term “Applicants” is used herein generically and
may refer to a single inventor, a set of inventors, an appropriate assignee, oF any other entity or

person with authority to prosecute this application,

Page 5 of 10


‘Application Ne. 1902272
Responsive to Ofice Action nue August 11,2017

38 102

‘The Office Action rejects claims 1-4 and 6-10 under 35 U.S.C. § 102(b) over Mudaliar
(Avarai Nei” from Athmaraksheamirtham, Pub: lakkana Achagam, chennai (1897), pp. $36-
537. Retrieved from: TKDL on 9/8/2016). According to MPEP § 2131, a claim is anticipated
under 35 USC. § 102(a),(b), oF (¢) “only if each and every element as set forth inthe claim is
found, ether expressly or inherently described, in a single prior art reference” ‘The reference
‘must show the identical invention in as complete detail as is contained inthe claim. Finally, the
elements must be arranged or combined as required by the claim.

Applicants do not necessarily agree with Examiner’s statements regarding at least (1)
‘whether Mudaliar discloses each and every element recited in the claims, (2) whether Muda
teaches the combination presented in the claims, and (3) whether Mudaliar discloses or
inherently includes the features that the Office Action asserts that Mudaliar includes
Nevertheless, in the interest of expediting prosecution, Applicants have herein amended
independent claim 1 to recite “the extract is derived from leaves of a palm tree species and

‘The present invention discloses a composition with anti-diabetic property comprising an
‘extract ftom leaves of Palmae family for diabetic management and prevention against oxidative
sires, retarding diabetes related complications, retating diabetes related organ degeneration and

Page 6 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

effective to hinder or prevent ailments or conditions resulting from, or exacerbated by, a chronic
increase in blood sugar including: tissue degeneration, cardiovascular disease, kidney
dysfunction, loss of cognitive function, weight loss, visual impairment, and vasomotor
symptoms. Amended independent claim 1 ofthe present invention discloses a method of treating
4 diabetic subject by providing a composition comprising a substance having an anti-diabetic
property, the substance being palm leaf extract which includes biophenols, proteins, lipids,
saccharides, minerals and small peptides in a pharmaceutically effective amount to treat diabetes
disease. Further, the extract is derived from leaves of a palm tree species and wherein the palm
ree species is selected from a group consisting of Elaeis guineensis, Elaeis oleifera, and Phoenix

dactylifera or a combination thereof.

Applicant submits that Mudaliar discloses 31 substances as an essential feature of
“Mudalir’s composition. It is noticeable that, the substances are derived from different pats of
plants (i.e. root bark, Leaves, seed, flower bud ete) from different plant families (ie, Cassia
suriculata Linn from Faceceae family, Zinger offiinale roscoe from Zingiberaceae family ete.)
(Gee page 2 to 4 of the Mudaliar). Meanwhile, the present invention discloses that the
composition deriving from extracts from leaves of Palma family (page 7, ines 25-27 and page
8, lines 810 16 of the PCT specification). As such,

‘extract of the present invention is different compared to the composition of Mudaliar.

is clear that the compost

n of palm leat

Further, the fact that there are substantial differences in the active ingredients between
plants from different families is known to the person skilled in the art as plants from different
families may also exhibit differences in the active ingredients there among, Accordingly, the
person skilled in the art cannot easily deduce the active ingredients in the leaves of Palmae
family specifically from Elacis guineensis, Elacis oleifera, and Phoenix dactylifera as disclosed
by the present invention from the active ingredients disclosed in the other parts of plants from
‘other species as disclosed in Mudaliar.

‘Thus, it cannot be concluded that the ingredients in the extract of the present invention
inevitably exist in the extract disclosed by Mudaliar. Therefore, even by reading the Mudaliar,
the person skilled inthe at still cannot easily derive to the present invention’s technical solution

Page 7 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

In view of the above, the Applicant respectfully disagrees with the Examiner's contention
thatthe set of claims as highlighted above are lacking novelty step in view of Mudaliar (U*). In
view of the above amendments and arguments, the Examiner's objection on lack of novelty has
been rendered moot and the Appli
objection

unt respectfully requests the Examiner to obviate this

‘The amendments presented herein, taken as a whole, render the rejections moot
Applicants note that portions of the claims, other than those specifically amended and/or
mentioned above, may contribute to patentability. In light ofthe references as now understood by

Applicants and the amendments made herein, the cla

1 appear to be allowable. Applicants
therefore respectfully request that Examiner withdraw the rejections under 35 USC. § 102 of
the claims.

Rejections under 35 U.S.C. § 1033)
‘The Office Action rejects claims 1-4, 6-11 and 16-19 under 3 U.S.C. § 103(a) over

‘Mudaliar in view of Nursing times (~The administration of medicines”. Internet publication date:
2007-1

19 [Rettieved from the Internet on: 2016-09-09]. Retrieved from the Intemet: <URL:
‘ttps:/www nursingtimes nevlinical-archive/medicine-management/theadministration-of-
‘medicines/288560 article>), The Office Action also rejects claims 1-4, 6-11 and 16-19 under 35
USC. § 103(a) over Greifenstein (DE102004018363).

Applicants do not necessarily agree with Examiner's statements regarding at least (1)
whether the cited reference(s) disclose each and every element recited in the claims, (2) whether
the cited reference(s) teach the combination presented in the claims, (3) whether the cited
reference(s) disclose or inherently include the features that the Office Action asserts that the
teference(s) include, and (4) whether the reference(s) or any other source provide a reason 10
‘combine the teachings ofthe reference(s). Nevertheless, in the interest of expediting prosecution,
Applicants have herein amended independent claim 1 as recited above.

In view of the Examiner's objection, the Applicant with respect presents herewith the
‘arguments. Applicants submit that Nursing times does not cure the deficiencies of Mudaliar.
‘Thus, the claims are still allowable over the combination of Mudaliar and Nursing Times.

Page 8 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

Applicants submit that Greifenstein discloses a medicament comprising of extracts of
Prunus armenica, Cocos nucifera, Humulus lupulus, germinated barley/tye/wheat, mycetes, the
‘grape juice of the common grape vine by alcoholic fermentation of extracted liquid, Musaceae
and leaves of Rubus as active agents, Further, it teaches that the medicament is effective for
‘weatment of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), cancer, malignant tumors,
carcinomas or sarcomas and/or disorders of the psyche or of the nervous system (see page 5,
paragraph 4 of Greifenstein), Nothing in Greifenstein teaches treatment of a diabetic subject,
‘and thereby Greifenstein in non-analogous art. Meanwhile, the present invention discloses @
‘medicament comprises of extracts from leaves of Palmae family specifically from Elacis
‘guineensis, Elacis oleifera, and Phoenix dactylifera. Further, the present invention teaches that
the medicament is effective to inhibit tissue deueneration, cardiovascular disease, kidney
dysfunction, loss of cognitive function, weight loss, visual impairment, and vasomotor symptoms
in the diabetic subject. Thus, itis obvious thatthe ingredients disclosed in the present invention
‘and Greifenstein respectively are different, Further, the use of the ingredients to treat specific
diseases also varie.

Further, the fact that there are substantial differences in the active ingredients between
plants from different families is known to the person skilled in the art as plants from diferent
families may also exhibit differences in the active ingredients there among. Accordingly, the
person skilled in the art cannot easily deduce the active ingredients in the leaves of Palmae
family specifically from Elaeis guineensis, Elais oleifera, and Phoenix dactylifera as disclosed
by the present invention from the active ingredients disclosed in the other parts of plants from
‘other species as disclosed in Greifenstin,

‘Thus, it cannot be concluded that the ingredients in the extract of the present invention
inevitably exist in the extract disclosed by Greifenstein. Therefore, even by reading Greifenstein
the person skilled in the art still cannot easily derive to the present invention's technical solution
[As such, itis clear that teachings of the present invention are not the same and are significantly
different to the teachings of Greifenstein. In view of the above, itis apparent that the present
invention is not anticipated or render obvious to the person skilled in the art in view of
Greifenstein. Thus, the Applicant respectfully requests the Examiner to withdraw this objection

Page 9 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

‘The Applicant believes that the amendments presented herein, taken as a whole are
«within the scope of the disclosure in the initial application. Applicant notes that portions of the
claims other than those specifically amended and/or mentioned above may contribute 10
patentability. In light of the references as now understood by Applicants and the amendments

made herein, the

ims appear to be allowable. Applicants therefore respectfully request that
Examiner to pursue further examination based on amended claims and allow present patent
application to be granted

CONCLUSION
In view of the foregoing, Applicants submit that the pending claims are allowable. In the
‘event that Examiner finds remaining impediment to a prompt allowance of this application that

‘may be clarified through a telephone interview or overcome by an Examiner's Amendment,

Examiner is requested to contact the undersigned attorney

Dated this 11th day of October, 2017.

Respectfully submitted,
‘Jonathan M. Benns/

Jonathan M. Benns
Registration No, $3983,
Attorney for Applicant
Customer No. 97149
‘Telephone No. (435) 252-1360

Page 10 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive to Ofice Action nue August 11,2017

a

DME! THE CLAI

‘This listing of claims replaces all prior versions and listings of claims in the application,

1 Currently Amended) A._method of treating a diabetic subject, the method
‘comprising

having an anti-diabetic. property, the substance being palm leaf extract which includes

biophenols, proteins, lipids, saccharides, minerals and small peptides wherein the extract is

fi, administering the composition in a pharmaceutically effective amount to the diabetic

‘subject to treat diabetes disease

4. (Original) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the extract is an aqueous, an

aqueous alcoholic ofa polar extract.
5. (Cancelled
6 (Original) The method as claimed in claim 1

pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to reduce blood
suar in the diabetic subject.

comprising administering a

Page 2 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802

Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

(Original The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to inhibit diabetic
oxidative stress in the diabetic subject.

(Original) The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract suficient to inhibit diabetic
complications in the diabetic subject

(Original The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically effective amount of the palm leaf extract sufficient to inhibit tissue
degeneration, cardiovascular disease, kidney dysfunction, 1oss of cognitive function,

‘weight loss, visual impairment, and vasomotor symptoms in the diabetic subject.

(Previously Presented) The method 2s claimed in claim 1, wherein the palm leaf’
extract isan alcoholic extract.

(Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the palm leaf
extract is an ethanol extract.

(Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
pharmaceutically effective amount is $0-200 mek.

Page 3 of 10


‘pplication No 1922752 “tomy Docket Namber K1007 100130802
Responsive o Ofice Action nied August 11, 2017

19. (Previously Presented) The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the

pharmaceutically effective amount is administered daily for atleast 15 days.

20. (Cancelled)

Page 4 of 10
