Unrrep Stares PaTenr AND TRADEMARK OFFICE,

Dee a0 Gaps Ga To =

ee 0 wesc Ne

KRAMER & AMADO, PC.

13S DUKE STREET TN NT

SUITE 240 -

ALEXANDRIA, VA 22314 aT ood
oac20n TLECTRONE

Please find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding.
‘The time period for reply if any, is set inthe attached communication.
Notice of the Office communication was sent electronically on above-indicated "Notification Date” to the

following e-mail address(es):
i krameramado com


“Application Wo- “Apphcanits)

2674113 GOKARASU ETAL
Office Action Summary Samir Aaa
MELENIE MCCORMICK. 1685

= The MAILING DATE ofthis communication appears onthe cover sheet with he correspondence address =
Period for Reply

SHORTENED STATUTORY =f FoR REPLYS SET TO EXPE 4 MONT) OR THIRTY 2) AYE,
GeHIEveN Lone Pheu Toe WAN DATE OTe CouMNATTON
Raseeem eee naan

Stats
1B. Responsive to communieaton() fed on o7/1s.2051
22)0] This action is FINAL. £2) This action is non-fnl

3100 An election was made by the applicant in response to a restction requirement set forth dizing the interview on
the rasvition requeament and elation have bean inoorporated into this action
410 Since this application isin conction for allowance except for formal matters, prosecution as to the merits is
closed in accordance with the practice under Ex parte Quayle, 1996.C.0. 11, 483 0.6. 218.
Disposition of Claims

'5)0@ laim(s) £4 and 16.29 sare pending in the appicaton,
5a) Of the above claim(s) 23.24 and 27 is/are wahdrawn trom consideration.

60 Giaim(s) __ is/are alowed,

7) Claim(s) 1-4, 16:22, 25-26 and 28-30 is/are rejected.

20) Claims) __islare objected to.

9)C0 Claims) aro subjct to resticton andor elation requirement.
‘Application Papers

10) The specication is objected toby the Examiner.
11)B@ The crawing(s) ted on 18 February 2010 sare: a)B accepted or b)C] obycted to by the Examiner.
‘Appeant may nt raquet ha any objection othe drawings) beheld abeyance. See 37 CFR 1.85),
Replacement drawing sheets) including he corecon is requieithe drawing(s) i objected. See 37 CFR 1.12118,
1201 The oath or doctaration is objected to bythe Examiner. Note the attached Ottice Action or form PTO-182.
Priority undor 35 US.C. § 119
19) Acknowedgmentis made ofa ciaim for foreign pronty under 86 U.S.C. § 119{a)}(0) 0 (.
ALIA! b)L}Some* oC] None ot:
1. Contos copies ofthe priory documents nave beon ecoWved.
2.0) Corti copies of the prirty cocuments nave been received in Appicaton No. _.
3,0 Copies ofthe certied copies ofthe priory documents have been received inthis National Stage
applaton trom the Intemational Bureau (PCT ule 17.218).
* See the attached detaled Office action for alist of he certified copies not received.

tachment)

1) B Noten ot Reeronces Crea (PTO-92) 9D reerien summary e703)

2} Noten of atapanons Pte’ rowing Revew (PTO08) Paper hotel Baw

3) iteration Osseo Sut) (PTOSSOS) 1) totcectiromal Pert Aopen
Pape Nota Oa Cloner

fear
Prova (er GO) ‘Otte Acton Summary Part Papa Ma Ose 01


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 2
‘Ast Unit: 1655

DETAILED ACTION
Election/Restrictions

Applicant's election with traverse of group I, claims 1-4, 16-22, 25-26 and 28-30,
in the reply filed on 0715/2011 is acknowledged. The traversal is on the grounds that
‘groups | and II do in fact share a technical feature which defines a contribution over the
prior art. In particular, Applicants argue that Parinitha (the art cited in the Restriction
Requirement) describes use of Holoptelea intefolia for treating hair loss/and or herpes.
‘Applicants argue that their invention is directed to @ composition which is a herbal
‘supplement, which both contains Holoptelea integrefolia extract, and has the property of
being anti-adapogenic and pro-lipolytc. Applicants further argue that Parinitha offers no
‘evidence that compositions of Holoptelea integrefolia extract are ant-adapogenic and
provlipolytic. This is not found persuasive because although Parinitha does not explicitly
state this activity, the Holoptelea integrefolia extracts disclosed by would necessarily be
anti-adapogenic and pro-ipolytic since the instant specication discloses that,
Holoptelea integrifolia extracts are useful as adipogenesis inhibitors and lipolysis
accelerators (see e.g. pages 10 and 17). in addition, in ight of the prior art references
applied below, an anti-adipogenic and pro-tipolytic Holoptelea integnifolia extract was
known at the time of the claimed invention.

The requirement is stil deemed proper and is therefore made FINAL

Claims 23-24 and 27 are withdrawn from further consideration pursuant to 37
CFR 1.142(b), as being drawn to a nonelected invention, there being no allowable

generic or linking claim.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 3
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Claims 1-4, 16-22, 25-26, and 28-30 are presented for examination on the
merits.
Information Disclosure Statement
The Information Disclosure Statements submitted 11/22/2010 and 05/20/2010
have been received and considered,
Document 1 and 3-4 on the IDS submitted 05/20/2010 is not considered because

dates have not been provided for these documents.

Claim Objections
Claims 1-4, 16-22, 25-26, and 28-30 are objected to because ofthe folowing

informalities: The claims are drawn to ‘anti adipogenic and pro-lipolytic supplements’. t

is suggested that the claim be amended to recite ‘supplement in order to more closely

‘reflect conventional claim language.

Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 112
The following is a quotation of the frst paragraph of 35 U.S.C. 112:

“Tho spocifation shall contain a writen description of the invention, and of the manner and procoss of
‘making and using, such ul, ear coneis, and exact rms as Yo enable ay person shed in the
{rtto which pertain, or wih which itis most nearly connected, to make and use the same and shall
sel orth the best mode contemplated by the invertor of carving ou his veto,

Claims 1-4, 16-22, 25-26 and 28-30 are rejected under 35 U.S.C. 112, first

paragraph, because the specification, while being enabling for an anti-adipogenic and


‘Application/Control Number: 12674,113 Page 4
‘Att Unit: 1655

pro-lipolytic herbal supplement for inhibiting or controlling the particular adipogenesis
and lipolysis involved disease of obesity, overweight, and hyperlipidemia in mammals
‘comprising a water or polar organic solvent extract or purified fraction derived from
Holoptelea integrifolia alone or a composition comprising said water or polar organic
solvent extract or fraction optionally in combination with atleast one antiobesic agent
<d00s not does not reasonably provide enablement for an anti-agipogenic and pro-
lipolytic herbal supplement for inhibiting or controling or preventing all adipogenesis and
lipolysis involved diseases in mammals comprising any extract or purified fraction
<erived from Holoptelea integrifolia alone or a composition comprising said extract in
‘combination with atleast one antiobesic agent. The specification does not enable any
person skiled in the art to which it pertains, or with which itis most nearly connected, to

make and use the invention commensurate in scope with these claims.

The factors to be considered in determining whether a disclosure meets the
‘enablement requirements of 35 U.S.C. 112, first paragraph, have been described in In
re Wands, 858 F.2d 731, 8 USPQ2d 1400 (Fed. Cir., 1988). The court in Wands states,
“Enablement is not precluded by the necessity for some experimentation, such as
routine screening. However, experimentation needed to practice the invention must not
'be undue experimentation, The key word is ‘undue’, not ‘experimentation (Wands, 8
USPO2sd 1404). Cleary, enablement ofa claimed invention cannot be predicated on
the basis of quantity of experimentation required to make or use the invention.
“Whether undue experimentation is needed is not a single, simple factual determination,
but rather is a conciusion reached by weighing many factual considerations” (Wands, 8
USPG2d 1404). Among these factors are: (1) the nature of the invention; (2) the
breadth of the claims; (3) the state of the prior ar; (4) the predictability or
‘unpredictability ofthe art; (5) the relative skil of those in the art; (6) the amount of
<irection or guidance presented: (7) the presence or absence of working examples; and
(6) the quantity of experimentation necessary.

While all of these factors are considered, a sufficient amount for a prima facie
case is discussed below.


‘Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Pages
‘Art Unit: 1655
(1) The nature of the invention and (2) the breadth of the claims:

The claims are drawn to anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplements for
inhibiting or preventing or controling adipogenesis and lipolysis involved diseases in
mammals, comprising an extract or purtied fraction derived from Holoptelea integriolia
alone or a composition comprising said extract or fraction optionally in combination with
at least one antiobesic agent (see @.g. claim 1). The claims are also drawn to the
‘supplement wherein said adipogenesis and lipolysis involved diseases comprise
‘obesity, overweight, hyperlipidemia, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and
atherosclerosis (see e.g. claim 4). Thus, the claims taken together with the specification
imply that Applicants are claiming, in the broadest claim, a composition for inhibiting or
‘controling or preventing any disease in which adipogenesis or lipolysis is involved. in
‘addition, the ciaims taken together with the specification also imply that Applicants are
Claiming a composition for inhibiting or controling or preventing the specific conditions
recited in instant claim 4. As discussed by labtestonline.org, cardiovascular disease is a
‘general term used to describe disorders that can affect the heart and blood vessels see
9. page 1) and includes cerebral vascular diseases such as stroke (see 6.9. page 1)
as well as peripheral vascular disease including gangrene (see €.g. pages 1-2) and
myocarditis and congenital heart disease (see e.9. page 2). Therefore, the claims are
broad in that they encompass numerous diseases. In addition, the claims are drawn to
an anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement comprising an extract or purified
{raction derived from Holoptelea integriflia. Claim 20 is drawn to the extract wherein it

is prepared using water, a polar organic solvent or a mixture of the two. Claim 21 is


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 6
‘Ast Unit: 1655

drawn to the extract wherein itis prepared using particular polar organic solvents as,
well as particular non-polar organic solvents. Therefore, the claims encompass an anti-
adipogenic and prosipolytic supplement which comprises any type of Holoptelea
integritolia extract, including water extracts, and polar and non-polar organic solvent

extracts.

(9) The state of the prior art and (4) the predictability or unpredictability ofthe art:
The state of the artis unpredictable with regard to prevention, inhibition and
control of many of the conditions encompassed by the instant claims and it would be
unpredictable determine which of the vast number of conditions encompassed by the
instant claims could be controlled, prevented or inhibited with the instantly claimed anti
adipogentic and pro-lipolytic supplement. For instance, adipogenesis contributes to the
pathogenesis of thyroid eye disease (see e.g. Crisp et al. page 3249, abstract),
therelore, thyroid eye disease is an adipogenesis involved disease and is therefore
‘encompassed by the instant claims. However, thyroid eye disease is an autoimmune
diseases and the pathogenesis of thyroid eye disease is not completely clear (see €.9.
Crisp et al. page 249). In addition, as discussed by Camm, atherosclerosis is a chronic
‘and multifocal immune-inflammatory,fibroproliferative disease of medium sized and
large arteries driven by lipid accumulation and the speed ofits progression is
unpredictable and markedly different in diferent subjects (see e.g. page 338). Camm.
further teaches that at every level of risk factor exposure, there is substantial variation in

the amount of evolved atherosclerosis probably because the individual vulnerability to


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page7
‘Ast Unit: 1655

atherosclerosis and its risk factors varies greatly (see e.9. page 338). In addition, while
adipogenesis is involved in obesity, as discussed by Rosen et al, inhibition of
adipogenesis alone is an inappropriate approach to anti-obesity therapy (see e.g. page
£893 Box 3). Therefore, since many of the diseases encompassed by the claims are
‘unpredictable or have an unclear pathology, determining which of the diseases
‘encompassed by ‘adipogenesis and lipolysis involved iseases’ could be controlled or
inhibited or prevented using the instantly claimed supplement would be unpredictable.
In addition, the state of the art is unpredictable with regard to plant extracts. Itis
well known in the art that polarity of solvents plays a key role in determining the final
product obtained by an extraction. However, because many phytochemicals remain
undiscovered, the skilled artisan has to make his best educated guess as to what types
of phytochemicals will be successfully extracted with a solvent of a particular polarity
‘Often times, uniess the constituents in a particular plant extract have been well
evaluated and documented in the literature, the skilled artisan must adhere to trial and,
error protocols in order to quantitatively determine phytochemical constituents present
in samples obtained from respective extraction procedures. These procedures are
‘common when, for example, a plant or part thereof has been documented in the
literature as possessing some medicinal quality. The skilled artisan will attempt
‘numerous extraction protocols in attempt to isolate the particular ingredient which has
this medicinal quality. Typically, beginning with the frst crude extraction, itis a guess
‘as to whether or not the extract will possess certain phytochemical constituents, It is,

noted that the Instant specification does not disclose what the active ingredient of the


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 8
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘extract is; on the contrary, the specification only teaches certain extracts (i.
methanol/polar) which provide for the effective ingredient.

Each successive extraction of plant matter yields different products due to the
‘exclusion of ingredients based on the polarity of the solvents solvating constituents with
similar polarities. Subsequently, the properties of each respective product are
unpredictable and would need to be evaluated for chemical constituents,

‘Therefore, preparing an anti-adipogenic and pro-ipolytic composition comprising

any type of extract of Holoptelia integrifolia would be unpredictable.

(6) The relative skil of those in the art:

The relative skill of those in the artis high.

(6) The amount of direction or guidance presented and (7) the presence or absence of
working examples:

The specification has provided an example wherein an extract of Holoptelea
Integrifolia inhibited fat accumulation in ciferentiating adipocytes (see 0.9. pages 14-15,
Example 5). Therefore, the specication has reasonably demonstrated that the extract
{s anti-adipogenic. in addition, the specification has provided an example wherein an
‘extract of Holoptelea increased lipolysis in adipocytes (see page 15-16, Example 6).
Therefore, the specification has reasonably demonstrated thal the extract is pro-
lipolytic. The specication has also provided an example wherein rats fed a high fat diet
and simultaneously fed the extract were afforded a 15.4% and 27.3% protection against

‘weight gain (compared to the control group rats) with different doses of the extract (see


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 9
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘page 16, Example 7). The rats treated with the extract also showed significant reduction
in serum triglycerides and lipid profile and a reduction in serum cholesterol and LOL.
‘The specification also provides an example wherein obesity was induced in rats and
that the rats were then administered a Holoptelea integritolia extract (see e.9. pages 16-
17). The treated rats were afforded a reduction in weight gain of 98.1% and 130%
‘compared to the rats in the control group and showed a significant reduction in serum
triglycerides and lipid profile. Therefore, the specification reasonably demonstrates that
the instantly claimed supplement is useful in inhibiting or controling obesity or
‘overweight and hyperlipidemia. However, the specication does not disclose that the
extract actually prevented any diseases or conditions, including those claimed and
‘encompassed by the instant claims. In addition, the specification does not disclose that
‘a Holoptelea integritolia extract inhibited or controlled or prevented any of the other
‘numerous conditions instantly claimed and encompassed by the claims.

‘The specification has provided examples wherein methanol extracts, water
‘extracts and waterimethy! alcohol extracts of Holoptelea integrifolia were produced (see
ages 13-14) and the methanol extract was evaluated for anti-adipogenic and pro-
lipolytic activity, as discussed above. However, the specification does not disclose that
any non-polar extracts were produced and that they had the activity instantly claimed.

In addition, it should be noted that Singh et al, disclose that a petroleum ether
(2. non-polar) extract of the seeds of Holoptelea integrifolia contains, among other
‘compounds, B-sitosterol (see e.g. abstract). As evidenced by Chai etal, -sitosterol

has been shown to stimulate adipogenesis (see e.g. abstract). Therefore, anti-


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 10
‘Ast Unit: 1655

adipogenic activity of a non-polar extract of Holoptelea integriolia, due to the presence

of a pro-adipogenic compound, would be unpredictable.

(8) The quantity of experimentation necessary:

Considering the state of the art as discussed by Rosen regarding the fact that
inhibiting of adipogenesis alone is inappropriate approach to anti-obesity therapy, a
person of ordinary skill in the art would be burdened with undue experimentation in
order to determine the how to use the instantly claimed supplement to prevent obesity.
In adaition, considering the state of the art discussed by Crisp regarding the fact that the
pathogenesis of thyroid eye disease is unclear and the lack of guidance provided in the
‘specification with regard to control, inhibition or prevention ofthis disease with the
instantly claimed extract , one of ordinary skil in the art would be burdened with undue
‘experimentation to determine all of the patient populations, effective amounts and.
administration routes necessary in order to evaluate the extract for the prevention,

control or inhibition of thyroid eye disease. Similarly,

light of the unpredictable nature
of atherosclerosis as discussed by Camm and the lack of guidance inthe instant
‘specification with regard to the use of the claimed extract for prevention, inhibition or
control of atherosclerosis, one of ordinary skillin the art would be burdened with undue
‘experimentation to determine all of the patient populations, effective amounts and
‘administration routes necessary in order to evaluate the extract forthe prevention,

control or inhibition of atherosclerosis. Likewise, since the instant specification does not


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 11
‘Ast Unit: 1655

provide guidance with respect to the use of the instanly claimed supplement for
treatment of cardiovascular disease (and all of the conditions encompassed by this
term, as discussed above), type 2 diabetes or any additional diseases in which
adipogenesis and lipolysis would be related, it would take undue experimentation in
‘order to use the instantly claimed supplement commensurate with the full scope of the
Claims. n addition, in light of the unpredictability with regard to the particular
‘components extracted by various solvents, it would be unpredictable to prepare an anti-
adipogenic and prosipolytic herbal supplement comprising an extract of Holoptelea
Integritolia for use in inhibiting or controlling adipogenesis and lipolysis involved

diseases wherein the extract is obtained using any solvent.

Please note that this rejection can be overcome by omitting the phrase for
inhibiting or preventing or controling adipogenesis and lipolysis involved diseases in
mammals’ from claim 1 and rewriting claim 4 as an independent claim which is drawn to
the composition in claim 1 for inhibiting or controlling adipogenesis and lipolysis,
involved disease wherein the diseases are selected from the group consisting of
‘obesity, overweight and hyperlipidemia. In addition, the rejection can be overcome by,
in adaiton to the previous suggestion, limiting the extract claimed (Holoptelea

integrfolia) to a water or polar organic solvent extract.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 12
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 102
The following is a quotation of the appropriate paragraphs of 35 U.S.C. 102 that
form the basis for the rejections under this section made in this Ofice action:

‘Aperson shall be ened toa patent unless —

(©) the invention was patented or described in a pintod publication in this or a foreign county ox in

public use or onsale inthis courte, more than one year prior tothe date of application for patent in
{he Untes States.

(English Translation) with evidence provided by
Anwikar et al. (2010).

|Solantim xanthocarpum. Since the composition contains water, the composition

contains a biologically acceptable excipient and therefore is formulated as a
‘nutraceutical or pharmaceutical dosage form, as instantly claimed. In addition, nothing
‘would preclude the parenteral administration of the decoction disclosed by Sodhala et,
al. and the composition could be injected or used in drop form since itis a liquid
containing water as an excipient. Furthermore, Sodhala et al. teach that the composition.

is orally administered and is a therapeutic composition and is useful in the treatment of,


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 13,
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘among other conditions, obesity (see page 6 of 15) therefore, the composition reads on
1 food for specified health uses, as instantly claimed,

‘Anwikar et al. teach that a water extract of the fruits of Solanum xanthocarpum
has anti-inflammatory activity (see e.9. page 1). Therefore, since the composition
disclosed by Sodhala ot al. contains a decoction (i.e. an aqueous extract) of Solanum
xanthocarpum, the composition contains a pharmaceutically, nutritionally or dietetically

acceptable anti

lammatory agent, as instantly claimed. Nothing would preclude the
administration of the composition, which reads on a food or beverage as instantly
claimed (since its orally administrable) in an amount of 0.01 to 300 mg/kg per day. It
‘should be noted that instant claim 28 recites the manner in which the composition is
used, rather than a unit dosage form of the composition. In addition, since the

‘composition meets the structural limitations ofthe instant claims (i.e. it contains a water

‘extract from Holoptelea integrifolia),

is an anti-adipogenic and pro-tipolytic herbal
‘supplement, as instantly claimed. Therefore, nothing would preclude its use as such, as
instantly claimed. Furthermore, nothing would preclude the use of the composition
disclosed by Sodhala et al. for inhibiting or controling the adipogenesis and lipolysis
involved disease of obesity, overweight, and hypertipidemia since it meets the structural
limitations of the instant claims. in addition, as discussed above, Sodhala et al. explicitly
Gisclose that the composition is usoful in treating obesity (see page 6 of 15).

‘Therefore, the reference is deemed to anticipate the instant claims above.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 14
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Claims 1-4, 16, 19, 26, and 28-29 rejected under 35 U.S.C. 102(b) as being
anticipated by Sharma et al. (1994).

‘Sharma et al. teach that an aqueous extract made from the seeds of Holoptelea
Integritolia (see e.g. page 1). Sharma etal. further teach that the extract was made by
‘finding 2 grams of the seeds with a mortar and pestle in distiled water (see e.g. page
1), Therefore, since the composition disclosed by Sharma et al. contains a water extract
of the seeds of Holoptelea integrifola as instantly claimed, the composition is an anti-
adipogenic and pro-lipolytic supplement as instantly claimed and nothing would
preclude its use as an anti-adipogenic and pro-ipoiytic supplement for inhibiting or
controling the adipogenesis and lipolysis involved disease of obesity, overweight, and
hypertipicemia since it meets the structural imitations of the instant claims. Since the
‘composition contains distilled water, it contains a biologically acceptable excipiont and
is formulated into a nutraceutical or pharmaceutical dosage form, as instantly claimed.
In addition, nothing would one from eating the composition disclosed by Sharma et al.
‘Therefore, it eads on a dietary formulation in the form of food. The use of the
‘composition disclosed by Sharma et al. for specified health uses would not be
precluded since it meets the structural imitations ofthe instant claims. In addition,
‘nothing would prectude one from administering the composition in the form of a
therapeutic formulation or food in a range of from 0.01 to 300 mg/kg/day. It should be
‘noted that instant claim 28 recites the manner in which the composition is used, rather
than a unit dosage form of the composition.

‘Therefore, the relerence is deemed to anticipate the instant claims above.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 15
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 102/103
‘The following is a quotation of the appropriate paragraphs of 35 U.S.C. 102 that
{orm the basis for the rejections under this section made in this Office action:

‘Aperson shall be ented toa patent unloss ~

(©) he invention was patented or described in a printed publication in this oa foreign country orn
public use or onsale inthis cour, more than one year prior tothe date of application for patent in
the Unted States.

‘The following is a quotation of 35 U.S.C. 103(a) which forms the basis for all

‘obviousness rejections set forth in this Otfice action:

(a) Apatont may not be obtained though the invertion isnot idonticaly disclosed or described as et
forth secton 102 of tis te, ithe aferences between the subject mal sought to be patted ard
the pir art are such thatthe subject matter as a whole would have Been obvious at the time the
Inveruon was made toa person having ofinat silt tho at to which sad subject mater pertains.
Patenabilty shal not be negatved by the manner in which the invention was made.

"Claims 1, 3-4, 16, 18-20 and 25-26 are rejected under 35 U.S.C. 102(6) as_
anticipate by on the atemative, under 85 USC. 109) as obvious over by Sodhala
(etlal(7988) (English Transiation) wih evidence provided by Anwikar etal. (2010),
‘Sodhala et al. each a therapeutic composition which is made by powdering plant
material including the frit of Holoptelea integrifolia, boing the powdered plant material
with water, wherein a specific quantity of waters retained after boiling and then fitering
the composition to obtain the decoction (Kvatha) (see e.g. pages 5-6 of 15) and is relied
upon for the reasons set forth above. While Sodhala etal. do not explicitly teach thatthe
fitration step is performed wit fine fits, thatthe fitrate is evaporated after fitration

‘step and then purified, it should be noted that the extract of instant claim 20 is part of a


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 16
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘composition which may comprise addtional ingredients. Therefore, although the solvent
(which may be water) has been evaporated, when adding the concentrated extract to an
herbal composition which may comprise additional ingredients, including water, the
‘extract would not be expected to differ from an extract from which water had not been
‘evaporated. In addition, while instant claim 20 recites the steps of using fine fiter and of
purifying, its not explicity disclosed how fine the fiters are or how the purification takes
place or to what degree the extract is purified. Therefore, absent evidence to the
‘contrary, the extract disclosed by Sodhala, which has also been filtered, would be
expected to be substantially the same as the instantly claimed extract.

With respect to the USC 102/103 rejection above, please note that the
patentability ofa product does not depend on its method of production. Ifthe product in
the product-by-process claim is the same as or obvious from a product of the prior art,
the claim is unpatentable even though the prior product was made by a different
pprocess."_In re Thorpe, 777F.2d 695, 698, 227 USPQ 964, 966 (Fed. Cir. 1985)
(citations omitted). In addition, please also note that “The Patent Otfice bears a lesser
‘burden of proof in making out a case of prima facie obviousness for product-by-process
Claims because of their peculiar nature” than when a products claimed in the
‘conventional fashion. In re Fessmann, 489 F.2d 742, 744, 180 USPQ 324, 326 (CCPA

1974). Once the exami

9F provides a rationale tending to show that the claimed product
‘appears to be the same or similar to that of the prior art, although produced by a
<ifferent process, the burden shifts to applicant to come forward with evidence

establishing an unobvious difference between the claimed product and the prior art


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 17
‘Ast Unit: 1655

product. In re Marosi, 710 F.2d 798, 802, 218 USPQ 289, 292 (Fed. Cir. 1983) (See
MPEP 2113),
Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 103
‘The following is a quotation of 35 U.S.C. 103(a) which forms the basis for all
‘obviousness rejections set forth in this Otfice action:

(2) Apatont may not be obtained though the invention isnot idanicaly closed or desorbed as set
forth n section 102 o ti Wo, ithe erences between the subject mar sought tobe patented and
the pir art are such thatthe subject matter as a whole would have Been cbvious a the time the
lnverton was made toa person Raving ordinary sll nthe at to which sid subject matter pertains.
Patentablty shall not be negatved by the manner in which the invention was made.

be |
([Unipatentable over Soahala’et/al/(1999) (English Transiation) with evidence provided by
‘Anwikar et al, (2010) Jacobs etal. (US 2005/0130933 At),

‘Sodhala et al. tach a therapeutic composition which comprises a water extract
of the frut of Holoptelea integrifolia and a biologically acceptable excipient (Le. water)
which reads on an anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic herbal supplement, as instantly
claimed, and are relied upon for the reasons set forth above. As discussed above,
Sodhala et al teach that the composition is orally administered and is a therapeutic,
‘composition and is useful in the treatment of, among other conditions, obesity (see page
6 of 15).

Sodhala et al. do not explicitly teach that the composition is formulated as a
tablet, capsule or nutritional food bar.

Jacobs et al. teach a method for treating weightloss by administering an herbal

‘composition (see e.9. claim 34). Jacobs etal teach thatthe composition may be


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 18
‘Ast Unit: 1655

administered in the form of a capsule (which would necessarily either be hard or soft),
tablet or a food bar (see e.g. claims 47, 48 and 50).

It would have been obvious to one of ordinary skill inthe art to formulate the
herbal composition for treating obesity disclosed by Sodhala etal. in the form of a
tablet, capsule or nutritional food bar. A person of ordinary skin the art would have
had a reasonable expectation of success in doing so since Sodhala et al. teach that the
‘composition is orally administered and since Jacobs etal. teach that another herbal
‘composition for weight loss may be formulated as a tablet, capsule, or food bar.
‘Therefore, a person of ordinary skill in the art would reasonably recognize that these are
‘conventional forms for herbal compositions which are used for weight loss. Since the
food bar would contain atleast some food, it would be nutritional.

From the teachings of the references

is apparent that one of ordinary ski in
the art would have had a reasonable expectation of success in producing the claimed,
‘invention, Therefore, the invention as a whole was prima facie obvious to one of
‘ordinary skil inthe art at the time the invention was made, as evidenced by the

references, especially in the absence of evidence to the contrary.

| creat Se Sea aA GBE erlh Transiaion with evdance proved

bby Anwikar et al. (2010) in view of Mason (1999).


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 19
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘Sodhala et al. teach a therapeutic composition which comprises a filtered
decoction of the fruit of Holoptelea integrifolia and a biologically acceptable excipient
(2. water) which would be expected to be substantially the same as the instantly
claimed composition although it was made in a slighty different manner and are relied
‘upon for the reasons set forth above.

‘Sodhala et al. do not explicitly teach that the Holoptelea integritolia is extracted
with ethanol

‘Mason teaches that preparations made with herbs usually require the addition of
‘base solvent such as water or alcohol. Mason further teaches that aqueous
preparations such as infusions and decoctions do not keep very well, but that alcohol —
based tinctures have a much longer shelf ike. Mason further teaches that decoctions
have another advantage in that alcohol is a very good solvent for many constituents in
plants. Mason further teaches an example of a plant extraction wherein ethanol proved
to be a better solvent than aqueous ethanol

‘A person of ordinary skil in the art would have had a reasonable expectation of
‘suecess in performing the extraction disclosed by Sodhala etal. with ethanol instead of
water. A person of ordinary skill in the art would have had a reasonable expectation of
‘success in doing so since Mason teaches that decoctions do not keep very well and that
in alcohol based extracts have a longer shelf ite. Combined with the additional
disclosure of Mason that ethanol may be a superior extraction solvent compared to
aqueous ethanol, a person of ordinary skil in the art would have good reason to prepare

the extract disclosed by Sodhala et al. using ethanol.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 20
‘Ast Unit: 1655

From the teachings of the references, itis apparent that one of ordinary skilin
the art would have had a reasonable expectation of success in producing the claimed,
invention. Therefore, the invention as a whole was prima facie obvious to one of
‘ordinary skill inthe art atthe time the invention was made, as evidenced by the

references, especially in the absence of evidence to the contrary.

Claims 1, 3-4, 16, 18-20, 22, and 25-26 are rejected under 35 U.S.C. 103(a) as
| Bi unpaenitabie Gver Soda etal (1888) (English Translaton) with evidence
provided by Anwikar et al. (2010) in view of Watanabe (2004).

SSodhala et al. teach a therapeutic compostion which comprises a water extract
of the fut of Holoptolea integra and a bologically acceptable exciiont (Le. water)
which reads on an ant-acipogenic and pro-ipolytc herbal supplement, a instantly
claimed, and are relied upon forthe reasons set frtn above. As discussed above,
Sodhala et al. teach that the composition is orally administered and is a therapeutic
composition and is useful in the treatment of, among other conditions, obesity (see page
60115)

‘Sodhala et al. do not explicitly teach that the composition additionally comprises
a green tea extract or banaba extract.

Watanabe teaches that there are several therapeulc interventions by natural

products in the treatment of obesity including green tea and banaba extract (set

9
page 196).


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 21
‘Ast Unit: 1655

It would have been obvious to one of ordinary ski inthe art atthe time the
claimed invention was made to add green tea extract and/or banaba extract to the
‘composition disclosed by Sodhala et al. A person of ordinary skill inthe art would have
had a reasonable expectation of success in doing so since Sodhala etal. teach that the
‘composition is used for treating obesity and since Watanabe teaches that green tea and
‘banana extract are also useful in treating obesity, Therefore, a person of ordinary skillin

the art, when preparing the herbal composition disclosed by Sodhala et al., would have

‘900d reason to add green tea extract andlor banaba extract to the composition in order
to prepare a natural treatment for obesity.

“The idea for combining them flows logically from their having been used
individually in the prior art’ In re Kerkhoven, 626 F.2d 846, 850, 205 USPQ 1069, 1072
(CCPA 1980) (citations omitted) (Claims to a process of preparing a spray-cried
detergent by mixing together two conventional spray-cried detergents were held to be
prima facie obvious.). This rejection is based upon the well- established proposition of
patent law that no invention resides in combining old ingredients of known properties
where the results obtained thereby are no more than the additive effect of the
ingredients, See In re Sussman, 136 F.2d 715, 718, 58 USPQ 262, 264 (CCPA 1943).

From the teachings of the references, its apparent that one of ordinary skill in
the art would have had a reasonable expectation of success in producing the claimed
invention. Therefore, the invention as a whole was prima facie obvious to one of
‘ordinary skill in the art atthe time the invention was made, as evidenced by the

references, especially in the absence of evidence to the contrary


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 22
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Double Patenting
‘The nonstatutory double patenting rejection is based on a judicially created
<octrine grounded in public policy (a policy reflected in the statute) so as to prevent the
unjustified or improper timewise extension ofthe ‘right to exclude" granted by a patent
‘and to prevent possible harassment by multiple assignees. A nonstatutory
‘obviousness type double patenting rejection is appropriate where the conflicting claims

‘are not identical, but at least on

‘amined application claim is not patentably distinct
{rom the reference claim(s) because the examined application claim is either anticipated
by, or would have been obvious over, the reference claim(s). See, e.g., In re Berg, 140
F.3d 1428, 46 USPQ2d 1228 (Fed. Cir. 1998); In re Goodman, 11 F.3d 1046, 29
USPQad 2010 (Fed. Cir. 1993); in re Longi, 759 F.2d 887, 225 USPQ 645 (Fed. Ci
1985); In re Van Omum, 686 F.2d 937, 214 USPQ 761 (CGPA 1982); In re Vogel, 422
F.2d 438, 164 USPQ 619 (CCPA 1970); and In re Thorington, 418 F.2d 528, 163
USPQ 644 (CCPA 1969)

A timely filed terminal disclaimer in compliance with 37 CFR 1.321(c) or 1.921(d)
may be used to overcome an actual or provisional rejection based on a nonstatutory
double patenting ground provided the conflicting application or patent either is shown to
be commonly owned with this application, or claims an invention made as a result of

activities undertaken within the scope of a joint research agreement.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 23,
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Effective January 1, 1994, a registered attomey or agent of record may sign a
terminal disclaimer. A terminal disclaimer signed by the assignee must fully comply with
37 CFR3.73(.

Claims 1, 3-4, 16-19, 22, 25-26 and 30 are provisionally rejected on the ground
‘of nonstatutory obviousness-type double patenting as being unpatentable over claims
23-41 and 45-51 of copending Application No. 12/678, 826.

‘This is a provisional obviousness-type double patenting rejection,

‘The claims of '826 are drawn to an anti-adipogenic herbal supplement
‘composition for inhibiting or preventing or ameliorating disease conditions in mammals
which comprises an anti adipogenic or ant-obese agent selected from a group with
includes Holoptelea integrifoia and which may comprise a biologically acceptable
‘excipient (see e.g, claims 90 and 45). The composition may also comprise many of the
anti-obesic agents claimed in instant claim 22 (see claim 30 of 826). In addition, the
claims of 826 are further drawn to an anti-adipagenic composition further comprising
the agents claimed in instant claim 25 (see e.g. claim 32 of 826). n addition, the claims
(of '826 are drawn to an anti-adipogenic composition in the form of injections, drops and
‘suppositories (see e.g. claim 34 of 826) and the forms claimed in instant claim 17 (see
‘249, claim 33 of 826). The composition of 826 may also be in the dietary formulations
aim in instant claim 30 (see claim 48 of '826), which read on foods for health use as,

claimed in instant claim 19.


‘Application/Control Number: 12674,113 Page 24
‘Att Unit: 1655

While the claims of 826 do not disclose a particular embodiment wherein the
anti-adipogenic composition contains the anti-adipogenic extract of Holoptelea
integrifolia and is in the forms instantly claimed, a person of ordinary skill the art
‘would reasonably understand that an ant-adipogenic composition comprising
Holoptelea integritolia could be formulated in these ways since the claims of 826 are
<drawn to anti-adipogenic compositions formulated in these ways. In addition, since the
‘composition rendered obvious by the claims of ‘826 contains an anti-adipogenic extract
of Holoptelea integrifolia and would also contain the additional anti-obesic agents
instant claimed, it would be expected to have ant-adipogenic and anti-ipolyice activity
4s instantly claimed because it would be expected to contain the same extract as

instantly claimed. Furthermore

nothing would preclude the use ofthe composition
rendered obvious by the claims of 826 from being used in the manner instantly claimed
sinc it would meet the structural imitations of the instant claims. Similarly, nothing
would preclude the composition, including the food and beverage compositions,
rendered obvious by the claims of 826 from being administered in an amount of 0.01 to

300 mg/kg weight/day.

Claims 1, 3-4, 16-19, 22, 25-26 and 30 are provisionally rejected on the ground
‘of nonstatutory obviousness-type double patenting as being unpatentable over claims 1-
16, 18, 20, 22, 24-26, 31-32, 34 and 38-39 of copending Application No. 12/784,295 in

view of Jacobs et al. (US 2005/0130833 At)


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 25,
‘Ast Unit: 1655

The claims of '295 are drawn to an anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic composition
{or amelioration of adipogenesis and lipolysis related diseases which may comprise a
Holoptelea integrifolia extract as an anti-obesic agent (see e.g. claim 12). In addition,
the ant-acipogenie and pro-ipolvtic composition of 295 may also comprise many of the
anti-obesic agents 2s caimed in instant claim 22 (see claim 12 of 295). The
‘composition of 295 may also biologically acceptable carriers (see ©.g. claim 2) and at
least one pharmaceutically or nutritionally of dietetically acceptable antioxidant,
‘adaptogen, ant-inflammatory agent, anti-diabetic agent, or race element (see e.9.
claim 14). n addition, the composition of 295 may also be in the form of a dietary
formulation as a food for specific health uses (see claim 15) and may be formulated as
many of the forms recited in instant claim 30 (see e.g. claim 34 of 295). The claims of
“296 are also drawn to the composition wherein itis formulated as a pharmaceutically or
ietary or nutraceutical formulation (see claim 24),

The claims of 295 are not explicitly drawn to an anti-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic
‘composition for amelioration of adipogenesis and lipolysis related diseases comprises a
Holoptelea integrifolia extract which isin the particular forms instantly claimed, including
tablet and capsule

Jacobs et al. teach a method for treating weight loss by administering an herbal
‘composition (see €.9, claim 34). Jacobs etal, teach that the composition may be
administered in the form of a capsule (which would necessarily either be hard or soft) or

a tablet (see e.g. claims 47and 48).


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 26
‘Ast Unit: 1655

It would have been obvious to one of ordinary skil in the art to prepare a
particular ant-adipogenic and pro-lipolytic composition comprising an extract of
Holoptelea integrifolia since the claims of 295 include Holoptelea integriolia as an ant
‘obesic agent which may be included in the formulation. In addition, it would have been
‘obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art to formulate the anti-adipogenic and pro-
lipolytic composition comprising a Holoptelea integrifolia extract rendered obvious by
the claims of 295 as a tablet or capsule, A person of ordinary skill in the art would have
had a reasonable expectation of success in doing so since the claims of 298 disclose
that the composition is in the form of a pharmaceutical or dietary or nutraceutical
‘composition (see claim 24) and since Jacobs et al. teach that another herbal
‘composition for weight loss may be formulated as a tablet or capsule. Therefore, a
person of ordinary skill in the art would reasonably recognize that these are
‘conventional forms for herbal compositions which are used for weight loss. Likewise, a
person of ordinary skill in the art would be motivated to formulate an anti-adipogenic
and pro-lipolytic composition in a form as recited in instant claim 30 since the claims of
295 are drawn to an anti-acipogenic and pro-lpolytic agent which may be formulated in
these ways ( see e.g. claim 34 of 295).

Furthermore, nothing would preclude the use of the composition rendered
‘obvious by the claims of 295 from being used in the manner instantly claimed since it
‘would meet the structural limitations of the instant claims. Similarly, nothing would

preclude the composition, including the food and beverage compositions, rendered


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 27
‘Ast Unit: 1655

‘obvious by the claims of 205 from being administered in an amount of 0.01 to 300
mg/kg weightiday.
This is a provisional obviousness-type double patenting rejection because the

Conflicting claims have not in fact been patented.

Conclusion

No claim is allowed.

‘Any inquiry conceming this communication or earlier communications from the
‘examiner should be directed to MELENIE MCCORMICK whose telephone number is
(671)272-8037. The examiner can normally be reached on M-F 7:30-4:00,

It attempts to reach the examiner by telephone are unsuccessful, the examiner's
‘supervisor, Terry McKelvey can be reached on 571-272-0775. The fax phone number

{or the organization where this application or proceeding is assigned is 571-273-8300.


Application/Control Number: 12/674,113 Page 28
‘Ast Unit: 1655

Information regarding the status of an application may be obtained from the
Patent Application Information Retrieval (PAIR) system. Status information for
published applications may be obtained from either Private PAIR or Public PAIR.
Status information for unpublished applications is available through Private PAIR only.
For more information about the PAIR system, see http:pair-direct.uspto.gov. Should
you have questions on access to the Private PAIR system, contact the Electronic
Business Center (EBC) at 866-217-8197 (toll-free). I you would like assistance from a
USPTO Customer Service Representative or access to the automated information
‘system, call 800-786-9199 (IN USA OR CANADA) or 571-272-1000.

MMelenie McCormick!
Primary Examiner, Art Unit 1655


REST. $e
References
Notice of Ched ‘Examiner At Un
(MELENIE MCCORMICK 1665, ‘age tS
*| teen [alin — —y
1 a see
rcs
nc
oho
=
rc
Ae
whee
ee
1 = —s
1
fi
- Ac Do SS TST OTS
«| esmendr nb id in
ae ee rae. toeom
«| a cpa peng om vec a
9 | ene Puasa ees toe Pg
«| tesa stah pea enn or ot ae tins vara Oly. Vr Deer
Pages 885-896.

a sl aera a

ro. 3ee fev oF 2001) Motes of Retorences Cred ‘Part Paper No. tt


baat a
MELENIE MCCORMICK 1655 mpens
° cout coormmerteac | Mery Name “Casstcaten
—
f=
=
=
=
+e
a
—
ee =
2
:
: [ee ee
~ | mna aonogean nny eaten enon sem
~ | pans ousn oyna an oon ventas aon ros Posh on

SPOT

(hori v oma pean ane Cusco may soe

Pare Papa. 0911



Tepan Cann, Par Tar
ve7ast9 GOKARAIUET AL
Notice of References Cited — —
MELENE MCCORMICK. 1055 Page sets
+ |_| comtiirinorsen cae [ wap Nae asetcaten
nics
2 [us
cus.
2 [us
[us
F [us
e [us
w [us
+ [us
a [us
x [s:
[us
u [us
+] | combiiiriinerson owe [ wanvery | coe ‘asecaten
©
=
= Tear a apie Asbo, Te Oe, Purr. Eaton es Veure Peon Page
u | Mason et a. Advances in Sonochemty evi. 199. Page 297
v | watanse. Proceedings fhe 3" nematonal Conference on Food Factors 10 Press. 2006. page 188.
Tp TRESS STS SS SPOT TT

hori vr omar pean ane Cusiearon mays Se

Pro" 3e2 ov OF 2001) Notice of Reerences Cred

Pare Papa. 813,

