Ammended Claims,

Dated : 27-04-2017

Claims

1. A composition for prophylaxis or treatment of urethritis oF cystitis,

comprising a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor,

LA. The composition of claim 1, wherein the matric metalloproteinase
Inhibitor is seleced fom the group consisting of inhibitors of MMP-2 and
mow

3A The composition of caim 1, which further comprises at lest one
component selected from the goup consisting of a calcineurin ensyme
scivator, cranberry, anda urine pH stabiizer.

a
4 5 "Thal somposition of claim A; wherein the calcineurin enzyme setivator

cera japonica Thun, Cordeceps
sinensis, Sophorae Radi, Hippophae rhamnoides, Flos Lonicerae,Pulsatilae
Radix, exract of the dried leaf of Camelia sinensis (1) C. Kuntze,
Ganoderma lucidum, Gynostemma pentaphyilum, Cynara Scolymus
‘Tayme, Fructus Sehisanérae, Prunellac spica, Lophatheri spica, Coptis
CChinensis Franchet, Dandction Taraxacum oficinale F, Weber ex Wiggers),

(PPewaie erie cardeniae Fructos, Sophora subprostrata Radix,
Houttuynia cordata Thum, Forsythia suspense (Thum) Vahl, Smilax glabra
snd Coptis groenandica Salish

x

x Xx x


3

5 % The composition of claim f, wherein the urine pH stabilizer
from the group consisting of glycolic acid, glic acid, ellagic acid, vanilic
acid, citric aid, malic acid, tartaric acid, lati acid, and vitamin C.

elected

a
6 7 The composition of claim #, which comprises a calcineurin enzyme
sctvator
Gg

7 xf The composition of cain 7% wherein ratio of weight percent of the
tari metalloproteinase inhibitor to the calcineurin enryme activator ie
‘tween 1021 and 1:5

& af The composition of claim 1, which contains pharmaceutically
acceptable excipients, carriers or diluents,

3 26 Use of a composition for the preparation of a medicament for the
prophylaxis or treatment of urethritis or cystitis, wherein the composition
‘comprises a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor,

Opuntia Streptacant

inseng, Eriobotrya japonica, Citrus depressa HayataliNetimmbeenaetere/
Mosla chinensis, Fructus schisandrac, Dalbergia odorfera, Smilax gla
tale and their extract.

4

AO J. The use of claim 36, wherein the matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor is
‘elected from the group consisting of inhibitors of MNP-2 and MMP-9,

x

XXX


3

AA. 36 Toe use of lai J, erin the composition father comprises atest
one component selected fom the goup contiting ofa calcineurin engine
setirte, renbery and rin pl stabi.

”
ALK The use of claim 34, wherein the calcineurin enzyme activator

‘elected from the group consisting of Lonicera japonica Thunb., Cordeceps
sinensis, Sophorae Radix, Hippophee shamnoides, Flos Lonicerae, Pulsatillae
Radix, extract of the dried leaf of Camellia sinensis (L) C. Kuntze,
Ganoderma Iueidum, Gynostemma pentaphyllum, Cynara Scolymus L,
Thyme, Fructus Schisandrae, Prunellae spica, Lophathert spica, Coptis
CChinensis Franchet, Dandelion (Taraxacum officinale F. Weber ex Wiggers),

Gardeniae Fructus, Sophora subprostrata Radix,
Houttuynia cordata Thum, Forsythia suspense (Thum) Vahl, Smilax glabra
and Coptis groenlandica Salish,

mM

AS 6 The se of cain 38 wherein the urine pH stabier ie alestd trom
the group consisting of gcc ald gale acl, ellage acd, venice
saa lala acl atrcd al,t n

4

4 6 The use of claim YS, wherein the composition contains
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, caries or dient

