31

AMENDED CLAIMS

1. Cosmetic use of atleast one compound of formula (I) of at least one of its
salts of formula (11) or of a mixture comprising at least one compound of formula (1) and
atleast one compound of formula (I):

OH O Cate

‘OH °
R R

O} 0)

in whieh:

R independently represents saturated, linear or branched, alkyl radical
comprising from 12 t0 20 carbon atoms, and

Cat~ represents an organic or inorganic cation or a mixture of organic or
inorganic cations which makes it possible to achieve electrical neutrality of the compound
‘of formula (If) or ofthe mixture of compounds of formulae (1) and (1),

as agent(s) intended to prevent and/or treat cutaneous signs of

2. Use according to Claim 1, in which R comprises from 14 to 18 carbon
atoms, preferably from 14 to 16 carbon atoms.

3. Use according to Claim 1 or 2, characterize in that:

+ the inorganic cation Cat* is chosen from alkali metals, alkaline earth metals
and transition metals; and

+ the organic cation Catt is chosen from the cationic form of a primary,
secondary or tertiary amine, and a quatemary ammonium.

4. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the cation Cat
‘represents an organic cation ora mixture of organic cations chosen from:

(i) the cationie form of an amino acid of L oF D form, and
i) @ quaternary ammonium N'RIRIRi-L-COsH, where Ry, Ro and Ro, which
are identical or different, representa saturated linear alkyl radical comprising from 1 to 12


32

carbon atoms and I. represents a saturated linear divalent hydrocarbon radical comprising
from 1 t0 6 carbon atoms.

5. Use according to any one ofthe preceding claims, in which Cat represents
the cationie form of an amino acid of Lor D form and preferably the cationic form of
Iysine, arginine, alanine or tryptophan, more preferably of lysine.

6. Use according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, in which the compound of
formula (I) is the compound or formula (A):

OH
cate

°

on,
in which Catt is as defined in any one of Claims 1 and 3 tS.

7. Use according to Claim 6, in which the compound of formula (I) is (A)
with Cats being chosen from an alkali metal eation, preferably a sodium cation, and the
cationic form of an amino acid of Lor D form, preferably the cationic form of lysine, and
preferably representing the cationic form of sine.

8, Use according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, in which the compound of
formula (I) is the compound of formula (F):

4,
on 9
woorny
oS °
2 AAO

9. Use according to Claim 1 or 2, in which the compound of formula (I) is the
compound (A’):

9
‘OH
a)
s-according-to-any-one-oF the preceding ela se "
andor treat sinks and fine fines:
e ing e_precedin
‘withered abby and/orthinned skin.

4210, Use according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that


3

the said compound(s) is (are) formulated in a composition.

4311, Use according to Claim 4210, in which the said compound(s) according
to the invention is (are) used in a composition in a total content of compounds (I) and/or
(It) ranging from 0.01 to 20% by weight, beter still from 0.1 to 10% by weight, more
particularly from 0.2 to 8% by weight and in particular from 0.5 to 5% by weight, with
respect tothe total weight of the composition.

4412. Nom-therapeutic cosmetic method for preventing and/or treating
cutaneous signs of chronobiolozical ageing, comprising at least one stage of topical
application to the skin of a composition comprising atleast one compound of formula (1),
atleast one of its salts of formula (I oF a mixture comprising at least one compound of
formula (I) and at least one compound of formula (TT), these compounds being as defined
according to any one of Claims 1 t0 9,

said cutancous signs of chronobiological ageing being selected from wrinkles,
sawithered skin, a flabby skin and skin,

