Rol gocoesr32—
2 t-I4

US. Sra No. 13/58,133|
Fil: AUGUST 31,2012
SANDALWOOD OIL AND HIS USES
Page? of 12

‘This listing of claims will replace all prior versions, und listings of elaims in the application:
Listing of Claims:
1. (Currently amended) A method of treating « non-skin cancer in a subjcet, suid method

‘comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of « composition comprising
disilled or extracted sandalwood oil, wherein the subject has a non-skin cancer, and wherein the

2. (Original) The method of claim 1, wherein the sandalwood ol is from Santali album or
‘Santalum spicatum ora combination thercof.

3. (Original) The method of claim 1, wherein the sandalwood oil is from Santalum albu.

4. (Original) The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprising sandalwood oil further

‘comprises one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients
5. (Cancelled)

{6 (Original) The method of claim 1, wherein the non-skin cancer is selected from the group
‘consisting ofa breast cancer, a head and neck cancer, an ovarian cancer, a bladder cancer, a

prostate canecr, a lung cancer, a renal cance, a leukemia. a liver eancer, a pancreatic eancer, a

‘colon cancer, and a central nervous system cancer.

7. (Original) The method of claim 3, wherein the non-skin cancer is slocted from the group
‘consisting of a breast cancer, a head and neck cancer, an ovarian cancer, a bladder cancer, a
prostate cancer, a lung cancer, a renal cancer, a leukemia, a liver eancer, a pancreatic cancer, a
‘colon cancer, and a central nervous system cancer


US. Sei No. 1882.33,
Fils: AUGUST 312012,

SANDALWOOD OIL AND TTS USES

Page Sof 12

8. (Original) The method of claim 4, whercin the non-skin cancer is selected from the group,
‘consisting of a breast cancer, a head and neck cancer, an ovarian cancer, a bladder cancer, a
Prostate cance, a lung cancer, a renal cancer, a leukemia, a liver eancer, a pancreatic cancer,

‘colon cancer, and a central nervous system cancer.

9. (Withdrawn) A method of preventing the progression of actinic keratosis to squamous cell
carcinoma (SCC) ina subject, comprising administcring wo a subject an ffective amount of a
composition comprising sandalwood oil, whercin the subject has actinic heratosis.

10. (Withdrawn) The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises about 1-300
‘micromolar sandalwood oil,

11. (Withdeawn) The method of claim 1, whercin the composition comprises about 0.0002-
(0.02% sandalwood oil (w/w),

12, (Withdrawn) The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises a concentration of
sandalwood oil that is less toxi than the same concentration of cinnamon oil in cl

13. (Withdrawn) The mothod of claim 12, wherein the cell is « human MRCS cell,

14. (Withdrawn) The method of claim 12, wherein the concentration is about 0.0002-0.02%

(win),
