te: 8 PARTNER

Moana EOMSAMATE
ieoertsrn a!

EP 08 77 7022.8 oie7e MO

Suntory Holdings Limited

(Our Ref: R3096 EP “40 Juni 2001

1, Use of An-antifatigueasentcomprising-an andrographolide as an active
ingredient, for preventing fatigue, reducing fatigue, or recovering from
fatigue

"The-Useani-fsigve-ogent of Claim 1, wherein andrographolide is contained
Inbeing-o-pharmacentical-sempenitons a food, oF a drink-for-preventine-or
reat «fatigue sete Hines comin

3. Fhe-entifatigue-agemUse of Claim 2, wherein the fatigueretted-itines-or
condition is selected from the group consisting of chronic fatigue syndrome,
‘overwork, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, and organ fatigue.

4. Pheani-faigue-sgeniLse of any one of Claims 13, wherein comprising per
‘4 daily amount of andrographolideshe-oni-foigue-agent to be taken by an
‘animal including a human; is 0.01-500 mg of-androgrepholide-per kilogram of
body weight

5. Phe-antifatigue-egeniUse of any one of Claims 1-3, wherein comprising pera
daily amount of andrographolidethe-ant-ftizwe-auent to be taken by a human
Adults s0.1-100 mg oF andrographetde

6. Fheamitatigue-agemUse of any one of Claims 1-5, in combination
‘withtorsher comprising-an alphe-lpoie acid

7. Phesanti-fatigueagentL se of Claim 6, whereincompeising: pera daily amount of
andrographolideshe-anti-fovigue-agent to be taken by an animal including a
human: is 0.01-$00 mg of sheandrographotide per kilogram of body weight and
1-200 mg ofthe alpha-lipoi acid pe kilogram of body weight.



8. _Fheanti-faiguengentUse of Claim 6, whereineomprsing-per a daily amount of
andrographolidethe-ant-fotigweagent to be taken by a human adult is 0.1-100
img of the andrographolide and 10-400 mg ofthe alpha-lipoic acid,

| 9. Fheanti-taiigueagentUse of any one of Claims 1-8, which is to be taken a single
time, multiple times, or ona regular basis.

10. Fhe-nifatigueagentUise of any one of Clams 1-9, wherein andrographolide
Is used as being on-niive ors pharmaceutical reform animal-an additive
for feed for an animal, an additive for a drink for an animal, a feed for an
animal, oa drink for an animal

‘HAn oral composition comprising an androgrephotide and.anaiphe-tipoie eid.

1. Andrographolide for use in a method for preventing or treating a
fatigue-related illness or condition.

