“RepleoniCaneaNe- “ppican(eyPaieré Under
seat Beessmnston
i367.984 ALGHAMDL SAEED SAEED

Notice of References Cited Tamser BaD

Any lar 1955 Page ott

* cute aeertence | were Name PC Clasetcaton | US Cassiteaton

= [a [es 2orvaass76s ar 722011 | Sleuonsson: GudranaurFervam | __ASTKSTIOS wae

7 [re [os2oraczsrassar T2010 | Kien: Morecha enKoe8s eas

[us

ac

acs

= [us

[os

acs

+ [os

acs

rac

ac

w [os

FORDGN PATENT DOCUMENTS
: camaurcomerencus [ware | Coty Nae PC Casetcanon
°
THOR PATENT DOCUMENTS
= Trl sapien Aur Tite Ota. Publahr Eaions Vale, Pent Pape)
Loy etal “Combined use of Honey, Be Propo ane Myr n Healing 2 Deep. infeciod woundin apatint wth abet

w 1) Retioved fom the lores URL:

Xx | domes, LM. Exercise 18 n “Psi Surgery & Dematoogy Coding Guide for Ambulatory Sugery Cetera", 2005. p 168,
EA Tg Sa oe aa DS ion ETP
‘Sevhinivfvioma uenasewonaser Suenos moysnie = ee
Pro Bee ov or 2007) Notes of Retarences Cited Pat of Paper Ne 20160816



Unrrep Stares Patent AND TRADEMARK QHACE:

[| I TEATRO ANTE NY |
Tos ons ‘Seed Sed ALGHAMDT TISAI va
GBLON, MCCLELLAND, MATER & NEUSTADT, LLP. TON
1940 DUKE STREET TARE MYT

ALEXANDRIA, VA 2

Please find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding.

"The time period for reply if any, is set inthe attached communication.

Notice of the Office communication was sent electronically on above-indicated
following e-mail address(es):

pacatdoket@abon com

Sbleapatblon comn

thudgens@oblon com



‘Application No. “Applicanis)
Wheres APSA SAEED SAEED

Office Action Summary Examiner Riva [Ree
soy ck 155" | tae

= The MAILING DATE of tis communicaion appears onthe cover sheet wih the corespondence address =
Period for Reply
[A SHORTENED STATUTORY PERIOD FOR REPLY iS SET TO EXPIRE MONTHS FROM THE MAILING DATE OF
THIS COMMUNICATION sym te
{slows apr ba sooner pa oe wt oats ences apc masse AANGENED ES US B30
‘Sy snty bce me PemainS ae ay yen
‘Status
1)62_Responsive 10 communicason(s) fied on ge-162055,
DA dectaration(s\atfidavit(s) under 37 CFR 1.130(b) was/were filed on
210) This action is FINAL, 2/69 Ths action is non-finl.
3) An election was made by he applicant in response to a rostiction requirement set forth during the interview on
the restriction requirement and electan have been incorporated into this action
4101 Sie this application sin conctton for allowance except for formal mates, prosecution as to the ments Is
080d in accordance withthe practice under Ex parte Quayle, 1995 C.D. 11, 483 0.G. 213.
Disposition of Claims”

'5)82 Cains) 1-19 is/are pending inthe appicaton,
5) One above ciaim(s) __ isare withcrawn from consideration

80 Cams)
90 Ciaims)
“trany claims have boon determined allowable. you may be eligi to bane rom the Patont Prosecution Highway program at
parcating intelectual property ote forthe corresponding appcaton. For mae formation, please see
‘niacin covnatantsntevensinhindes oor send an inquiry o PPHteacackbustn ax.

isare objected to.
subject resticton andlor election requcement

‘Application Papers
10)C2 Te specication objected toby te Examiner,
1110 The crawing(s) fied on _ is/are: a)( accepted or b/L] objected to by ne Examiner.
‘Aepleant may not request that any cbjecton fo the drawings) beheld in abeyance. See 37 CFR .88()
Feplacerert dawn sheet) inclung the corection is required Fhe rawieg(s) i objected io. See 37 CFR 1.121(d
Priority undor 35 US.C. § 119
12)BQ Acknowledgments made ofa claim for foreign prory under 85 US.C. § 118(a)-) oF)
Catiiod copies:
a)BQ All b)L) Some** o}] None of the:
1.1 Coie copies of he pry documents nave boon recoWved.
210) Centied copies ofthe prierty documents have been received in Apication No.__.
3B Copies of te carted copes ofthe prity documents have been receWed inthis National Stage
‘appicatio from the international Bureau (PCT Rule 17.2())
~ See the anached detaled Cte ation for ato he ceded copies not eceived.

‘tachment

1B Note of Reneee Cres POS) 2) wsesonSuenary P1043)

2) ntrmaon Declouue Sumer (PTO'SBORs ander PTONSBOM) Exper nat Dae —
Paper Na }al Ose Dover

Proce ee “oftce Acton Summary Parc Paper a Maia 20100816


‘Applicaion/Contol Number: 14987 064 Page 2
‘AetUnit 1655

DETAILED ACTION
[Notice of Pre-AIA or AIA Status
‘The present application, tied on or atlar March 16, 2013, i being examined under the ft

Inventor 10 fe provisions of he AIA.

Information Disclosure Statement
‘The information disclosure statements (IDS) are in complance withthe provisions of 37,

CFR 1.97. Accordingly, he information disclosure statement is being considered by the examiner.

Ciaim objections

Claim 1 is cboctad to because of te folowingnformalites: the phrase “he wound” missing
te preposition before te arm "the". Appropriate corrections roquiod.

Claims 2 and 418 ae objects to because of te folowing informal: te comma is missing
‘beeen the claim aurbar in the preamble and the remainder ofthe lam. Appropriate conection is
requires

Claim 2is objected to because ofthe folowing informalities: the trm “Deron is capitalized but
shouldbe lowercase, Appropriate correction requires

Claims 8-18 are objected to because ofthe folowing iformalites: the tem "Claim iscaptalzed

but should be lowercase. Aporoprate correction is required

(Claim Rejections -35 USC § 112

‘The folowing is a quotation of 35 U.S.C. 112¢b)

(} CONCLUSION The epactication shall condude with ena or mere claims patculary
Bolntng out and dstney aiming the subject mater which te inventor ora jot inventor
Fegards as the inventon.

‘The folowing isa quotation of 25 U'S.C. 112 (pre-AlA), second paragraph:
‘The specication shal concude wth one of more claims pareulary pointing out and detnctly
claiming the subject mater which the applicant regards as hs inventon


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 958 Page
‘AetUnit 1655

Claims 1-13 ae rected under 36 U.S.C. 112(0) oF 35 US.C. 112 (pre-AA), Second paragraph,
boing nde or ang fo partly point out anc cin cam te subject matir wich the

‘nvantor roi inventor, ror p9-AIA the applicant regan as te ivenion,

Ciaim 1 ects tho iitaton “he homogenized" inne 6, Thee i inslsentantacedont base
{or this imitation in the claim

“The metes and tounds of ciaim 2 ae rendered uncertain by the phrase “aHfrent ratios” because
‘ho amounts of tho ngredionts are not st fh in rms of ethor ‘by weight or "by volume” amount of ha
{otal compostion and itis not clear what Appicant regards as diferent ratios. 's Applicant claking
<tocont ratios of each ingreiontin elation t each othr ortho total compostion? What doos Applicant
‘9ard 28 “foret rates. Tho lak of cay nders the calms indatinto since the resuting claims do
‘not leary set forth the mates and bounds ofthe patent protection deskad,

Claim 3 rctes tho laitaton “he tissu regeneration of the wound! inline 3. Thor isutcent
‘artacedent basis fortis mation in the claim.

Claim rectes the imtaton “he tissue regeneration lvelin ne 4. There is insuicent
‘artocedent basis fr this mation in the claim.

Claims @ and 10 reste the imtaton “a stzbllzer*twie inte clam (mines 4 and ot claim 9
‘and in ings 3 and 4 of aim 10). There's insulicentantcedent basis ors itt inthe lai.

Claim 12reates the imitaton “he homogenized" in ine 1. Thee ls nsucient antecedent bass
{or this titaton in the cai.

Claim Rejections - 35 USC § 102
Inthe event he determination ofthe satus ofthe appiicaton as subject to AIASS USC. 102 and
103 (or as subject © pre-AIAS5 U'S.C. 102 and 109s ncorect, any corecson ofthe statutory basi or
{he ejection wil not be considered anew ground of rjection ifthe por art relied upon, and the ratonale
supporting tho rejection, woud be the same under ater status
(a) the claimed invarton was parted, dascrbad in a printed pubiaton, orn peut,

fon sae or otherwise avaliable tothe pualc betore the erlactve ling date ol the clamod
‘rverean


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 954 Pages
‘AetUnit 1685

Claims 1-3 are

jected under 95 USC, 102¢b)

being anticipated by Baknoor Bi

Bawasoo (U)

‘akhoor Barae-Bawasoor toachos a thorapout formulation comprising Anathum sowa nan
‘amount of 35 grams, Punca granatum peel in an amount of 108 grams and Commighora wig um
‘v9gun an amount of 42 grams (which reads on olaoresin of my) (which raadson efron ras) for
Jocal application fer eating pan, pilos, ano roctal mass (which reeds on a wound and can be causod by
davotes or gangrne) chamois.

“The method of using thereterenced compositions not expressly aught as @ metho of treating
abate or gangrenous wounds nor does the method othe reference teach the eects in claim 3
However, he intanty aimed processis a one-step process of tical administering a composition
comprising. Thus, the unctonal eects of treating dlabetico gangrenous wounds and he eects in
clair 3 are inmerent tote mathod a using the compostion taught by Bakhoor Bara-o-Sawasoer.

‘Thereire the rlerenceentcinates the instantly caimed invention,

Claims) 1,5, 4 and 6-8 are rejected under $5 U.S.C, 102(0) as being anticipated by Zmaad
Barae Warer-©-Kabid (V)

Zimaad Barae Ware--Kabid teaches a herepeutc formulation comprising Anethum Sowa,
Punicagranetum poe! and Commiphora wight enudate (which reads on olsresin of myth or esting
hepatits ad as a hepatic, whersin the formulation is ster a powder thats then mixed wah aliquid
base or a thick pate of herbs and wherein the formulaon is topicaly appli.

“Tne method of using the rterenced composition snot expressly taught as a method o eating
<abatc or gangrenous wounds nor does the method of he eference each the eects in claim 3
However, the instantly daimed process is a one-step process of topical administering a composition
comprising. Thus, the functonal eects of treating dabei o gangrenous wounds and he atc in
Cai 8 are imerent tore method a using the compostion taught by Zmaad Barae Warem-e-Kabi


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 958 Pages
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Therefore, the reterence anticipates the instanty claimed invention,

Claim Fefections -35 USC § 108,

‘The folowag sa quotation of 35 USC. 109 which farms he basis for al obviouness rejections
st ori th Ofloeacton

patent or a dames iventon may not be obtained awitstardg hal he daira

inuysclintbe ato wach he ced ierton partis. Patertay shal nt

‘opsed by he manos ih he noon wes ae

‘This applcaton curently names joint nvenrs.n corsderingpatereabiity ofthe cams the
xariner presumes tha he subject mater of he various Gams was commonly onned as of he fective
{ling date of the claimed invention(s) absent any evidence to the contrary. Applicant is advised of the
cbigaon under S7 CFR 1.5 0 point out the vento and tect ling dates of each ca ha was ot
commony owned as ofthe elective fling date ofthe late vention node fr the examiner to consider
‘the applicability of 35 U.S.C. 102(b\(2)(C) for any potential 35 U.S.C. 102(a}(2) prior art against the later
lovenbon

Cains 1-19 Ware rjcte under 95 USC, 109 as beng unpatentale over Sguonsson et a
(f°) lnvow of Kien etal (8, Loy etal) and Jones)

‘Siowionsson teaches a methos of veatng diabetic wounds comping topical admeisterrg &
compositon compising il (See paragraph 0013), wherein he composton canbe inthe fom a 99
‘intent, era, tam oon (See paragrah 0027) and can be administered on gauze or gauze can
‘be placid oer he comoiion (Se paragraph O23), Siguonsson further teaches tat the compoaon
can compie olive ol (Se paragraph C067) and canbe acrinstred as one dose or ves
cpleatons.Sigujonsson iter teachs that he appicaton canbe opantd wonky Ul skin an oF
wound healing i promoted, dues canbe admire 1-7 cays apr canbe adikered ane more
tina par dy, wooky o Baaeky oF month on anyother Haquancy for Hand when healing sows ors
stale (Soe paragraph 033). Sgujonsson futher toaches tat he compotion can comprise


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 958 Pages
‘AetUnit 1655

thickeners and emulsiters (see paragraph 0028). Sigurjonsson further teaches thatthe formulation can
{urtnar comprise adcltonaltherapeutcaly active compounds (See paragraph 0022)

‘Sigujonsson does not teach pomegranate peel or myer,

loin teaches pomegranate pool, wherein the peol can be administered as part of a cried
{ormulaton for treating diabetic wounds (See claim 26)

Lofty teaches mir, which isan oleogum resin obtained frm the stem of Commiphora malmol,
's effective for treating and healing dabetic wounds.

‘Sigujonsson does not teach cleaning the wound with alcohol prior to applying the composition.

Jones teaches clearing ckabatc ulcers wih alcohol and apatyng olnment followed by a gauze
dressing

IRwould have been cbvious to modify the composition used in the method taught by Sigujonsson
‘by combiaing ail with pomegranate pee! and myth to provide a topical campesition for veating diabotc
\wounds and to clean the ulcer with aleahol prior o placing the composition and a gauze dressing onthe
‘wound because atthe me the invention was mage, twas known that ail, pomegranate peel and myth
wore all useful ingredients that coud be appted topically for eating diabetic wounds and that cleaning
the dlabetc wound with alcoho, folowed by ointment and gauze dressing is a wel-known way to weat
diabetic wounds to promote healing as clearly taught by the above references.

It is wellknown that t's prima facie cbvious to combine two or more ingredients each of which is
taught by the prorat tobe useful forthe same purpose in order to form a thd composton which is
Useful forthe same purpose. The idea for combining them flows logical from thek having been uses
Individually inthe prorat, Based on the disclosure by these references that il, pomegranate pes! and
myth are useful ingredients in treating dlabetc wound, he artisan would have been motivated to
‘combine the claimed ingredients into a single composition. No patentabe invention resizes in combining
‘ingredients of Known properties where the resus obtained thereby are no mere than the active
‘ttact of he ingredionts. See MPEP section 2144.06, In Kerkhoven, 626 F 2d 846, 850, 205 USPQ

1089, 1972 (COPA 1980), Ex parto Quadr

‘25 USPG2d 1071 (8d. Pat. App. & Inte. 1992).


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 958 Page?
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Thus, an artisan of ordinary sil would reasonably expect hat combining dil, Pomegranate poe!
‘and myth would be even moce usatul and ettectve for retingdiabetle wounds ard that cleaning the

‘wound prior to administering the composition and gauze would provide a beter and fastor healing

‘vironment. This reasonable expectation of success would motivate the artisan to use dil, pomegranate
peel and myrrh to Peat dabetc wounds and to clean the wound with alcoho tor ating te ointment
‘and covering wih gauze based upon the teachings ofthe above reterences,

Moreover, it would have been marely a mattr of judicious selection to one of onary skin the
‘ar.at th time the invanton was mado o modly ha compostion bacause it would have boon wol inthe
‘pxxviow of one of ordinary sin the art practicing the invanton to pick and choose an efectve amount
‘ofa composiion and its ingrecnts to make a sale and move eflectve treatment of dlabotic crs, to
determine a sabe amount of ta and numberof times to administer the forma, an etfacive fom to
have tho compostion infor easier appicatlon, an etfoctve rogimen to teat dabet ulcers for faster ana
‘more efectve healing and io detemine heating rate during the process and adjusting the formulation and
‘amounts of ingresents accordingly to provide the desired healing parameters as caimed in daim 3,
“Tus, the claimed invention s 0 mare than the routne optimization of @resut fect variable

‘Sasod upon the bone teachings ofthe ted references, the shi fone af xdnary sil inthe
‘a. and absent evdence tothe conray, there would have been a reasonable expectaton of success 10
‘esultn the camed invention.

‘According, the claimed iwenton was pima faci cbvious to one of ordinary ski in the arta the
time the invention was made, especialy inthe absence of evince to the contrary

No claims are allowed.


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/387, 958 Page 8
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Any inquiry concerning this communication or earlier communications from the examiner should
‘be directed to Amy L. Ciark whose tolephone number is (571)272-1910. The examiner can normaly be
‘reached on Monday to Friday 7 am to 330 pm

Wt allempts to reach the examiner by tolephone are unsuccessful, the examiners supervisor,
‘Terry McKelvey can be reached on (571)272-0775. The fax phone number forthe organization where
this appication or proceeding is assigned is 571-279-8900,

Information regarding the status ofan appication may be cotainad from the Pataat Apolcation
Information Retieval (PAIR) system. Status information for published applications may be obtained from
‘ines Private PAIR of Public PAIR. Status information fr unpublisned applications is availabe through
Private PAIR only. For more information about the PAIR system, s9e htppair-dect.usptogov. Should
you have questions on access to the Private PAIR system, contact the Electronic Business Canter (EBC)
‘a1 866-217-9197 (tl:e. you would Ike assistance tom a USPTO Customer Sarvica Representative
‘or aocess tothe automated information system, cll 800-786-9199 IN USA OA CANADA) of 71-272
1000.

‘aery Clans
Primary Examine Art Unit 1655
