ate oerences cies | Pec
Amy L Clark 1655 Pentert

. compeamromerseniceae | wey. Name ‘PC Ciasetcaton | US Caseeaton

=

ste

+5

te

4

ae

ote

ote

te

te

ae

te

te

——
* Be ee out hae ‘CPC Caseacaton
a

: es

Ta TRS TTT TR FT RTT

Pro Bee ov or 2007) Note o Retarences Cid Pat of Paper Ne 20170218



Unrrep Stares Patent AND TRADEMARK QHACE:

[ee ee Te | ca]
‘Mahoft Bromma | = XN
18) Comer Drive, Sit 300 rey

Park City, UT 84058

Please find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding.
‘The time period for reply if any, is set in the attached communication.
Notice of the Office communication was sent electronically on above-indicated

following e-mail address(es):

dock nmb. com
Info mabecom

iotiication Date" t0 the


Appleton Wo. ‘Aepieaniy
loa MERaED eT AL

Office Action Summary Examiner Riva [ae
soy ck 155" | fae

Te MAG DATE as ammaneion appears ote cover shel whe caenpondence woss=
Period for Reply
{A SHORTENED STATUTORY PERIOD FOR REPLY 1S SET TO EXPIRE g MONTHS FFOM THE MALING DATE OF
He Serene sano Gra mee Nome pte
‘ey cys as acer marae yy ace
Status
1)B2_Respensive to communications) ed on 2118/2016
TA dociaraton(saticavits) under 37 CFR 1.130) wasinere fd on
2a)62) This action is FINAL. 2b) This action is non-final.
IC] An eect was made by th appicant in reeponso 1 a estictonaqurermant get forh during te inorvew on
the estcbon requremert an elecion have been corporates it is action
421 Siac his application in condion for lowance excep fr formal mater, prosacuton as tothe mets is
Closed in accordance wih te practice under Exparte Quayle, 1935 C.D. 11, 4530.6. 213.

Disposition of Claims
5) Cains) 1:20 is/are pending inthe appicaton,
5) Of ne above ciaim(s) __ isare withcrawn from consideration

60 Giaimis) _isare alowed
‘7B Calms) F:20 sare rjacteo
810 Claims) ‘s/are objected to.
90 Ciaims) subject resticton andlor election requcement
“trany claims have boon determined allowable. you may be eligi to bane rom the Patont Prosecution Highway program at
parcating intelectual property ote forthe corresponding appcaton. For mae formation, please see
‘niacin covnatantsntevensinhindes oor send an inquiry o PPHteacackbustn ax.
‘Application Papers
10)C2 Te specication objected toby te Examiner,
1110 The crawing(s) fied on _ is/are: a)( accepted or b/L] objected to by ne Examiner.
‘Aepleant may not request that any cbjecton fo the drawings) beheld in abeyance. See 37 CFR .88()
Feplacerert dawn sheet) inclung the corection is required Fhe rawieg(s) i objected io. See 37 CFR 1.121(d
Priority undor 35 US.C. §119
12). Acknowledgments made ofa claim for foreign priory under 85 US.C. § 118(a)() oF)
Catiiod copies:
a)DVAIl b)L) Some o)[] None of the:
111 Cortitod copies of he pry documents nave boon recoWved.
210) Centiad copie ofthe prierty documents have been received in Appication No._.
3121 Copies of te carted copes ofthe prity documents have been received in this National Stage
‘appicatio from the international Bureau (PCT Rule 17.2())
~ See the anached detaled Cte ation for ato he ceded copies not eceived.

‘tachment

1B Note of Reneee Cres POS) 2) wsesonSuenary P1043)

201 ntrmaon Decouue Sumer (PTO'SBORs ander PTO'SBOM) Exper nat Dae —
Paper Na }al Ose Dover

Proce ee “oftce Acton Summary Part Paper NaN Oa 0170038


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/622,782 Page 2
‘AetUnit 1685

‘The present appicaton is being examined under the pre-AIA fst to invent provisions.
DETAILED ACTION
‘Acknowledgments made ofthe receit and enty of the amendment lad on 11/18/2016.

‘Any rjacton found in the previous Otce Acton and not repeated herein has been withdrawn
‘based upon Applicant's amendments othe aims.

“The txt of those sections of Tite 35, U.S. Code not nluted inthis action can be found in a prior
(fice acon.

Claims 1-21 are currently under examination.

(Claim Rejections -35 USC § 102
(Caimis) 1-10 and 12-15 islare rejected under pre-AIA 95 U.S.C. 102{b) as being anticipated by
Mucaliar (U") (partly newly reapplied as necessitated by amendment)
“Mudalar teaches a composition comprising cocos nucieera leaf decoction obtained by combining
cocos nucifera leaves with water (which reads on aqueous extract for eating diabetes and tat the
‘compositions fst formulated ans then orally acministeres (please note that Applicant's cams are

‘constued as open, since Applicant clans a “composition comprising”. which is open claim language and

does not preclude additonal active ingredients from being part of he formulation),

‘Athough Mudalar does not teach thatthe extract incudes biophenols, proteins, Inds,
‘sacchavdes, minerals and small peptides, thatthe extract reduces blood suger inhibits oxidative sess,
inns dabete complications or thatthe extract nhs speciic complications in dabets patents, the
Claimed functional properties are inherent to the extract taught by Muda because the ingredients, the
‘aounts ofthe ingredients, and the route of administra forthe delivery of te ingredients taught by

Muda are one and the same as disciosed inthe i

tantly claimed invention of Applicant. Thus, the

‘oxvact taught by Mud

A nnerory has the sam properties as claimed by Applicant.

‘Therefore, the reference anticipates tho instanty claimed invention.


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page
‘AetUnit 1655

Cinin() 4,2 and 418 lao rected undor pre-AIA 35 USC. 102() as boing antpate by a
‘tal (N,tansation provides herein) (newly applid as nacesstated by amendment

ira teaches a method of treating siabates comping admcitering a methanol or ethanol extract
‘of Phoenix pico leaves (ach ads on palm lea extact) (See abstract and paragragh 0029). a
oes not require any adationalingredens. a futher teaches thatthe formulation canbe administered
‘as a tablot, capsule, suppostory, njactons, emulsion or lau soliton (Sae paragraph 0035). ra futhor
teaches thatthe dose canbe 50 mg/kg (See paragraph 009)

‘Alnough ra. doas not toach that he extract incudesbiophandl, proteins, pis, saccharide,

3s and smal popides, atthe extract reduces blood sugar, nibs oxdatve stress, nbs
abate complcatons or tat he extract inhibits specie complications in cabetc patient, the claimed
functor popertes ar inherent othe extract taught by Ira bacause th ingrecens, the amounts of he
Ingredients, and he route of administration forthe delivery of he ingesionts taught by ka are one and
the same ascscosed inthe instantly Games iention of Applicant. Thus, te exract aught bya
Inerent has the same properties as aimed by Appicant.

‘Theretore the reterenceantcicates the instatycarmed invention.

(Claim Rejections -35 USC § 108

Claims 11

18 and 1 ave ejected under re-AIA 35 U.S.C. 105(a) a being unpatentable over
‘Mudalar (U") In ow of “Nursing times”)

“The teachings of Mudala are so ort above and applied a bere.

Mudaliar 008 nt teach topical appication ofthe composition

“Nursing tes" teaches thatthe form of administaton ofa drug is based upon he boavalaity
‘ofthe :ug and most etlecive route of adminstiaton. “Nursing tines" teaches that topical administration

‘is an ottectve form for locally administering maication,


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page
‘AetUnit 1655

It would have been cbvious to mast the method by which the composition the composition is
‘asminstared bocausa atthe sme the invention was made, itwas kaoWn that a comBositon compsing
©2208 nucle ea! decoction is late fox Heating abotes and that medication can be othr cally or
topically admanistored as clearly taught by the above references

“Thus, an artisan of rdnary skit woud reasonably expect at opcally applying a compostion
‘comprising cocos nucifera et decoction would be mere elective for eating dabetes and symptoms of
lavotos by locally administering te medieaton tothe dosed sto. Ths easonatle expectation ot
‘votes woud motvate the artisan to use a composton comprising cocosnucifra leaf decoction fs
‘fective for voating olaboos for reating dabotes and its symptoms by laly administering ho
{oxmalation based upon the Benoticialeachings ofthe sbove ofeonoes.

“The resulteacsve axjustmont of pattular comventonal working cnditons (2, detomining
‘ha most toca way to adminstr medication toa person n need) if doomed merolya mater of
{uticious selection and routine optimization which s wel within the purview cf the kil artisan

‘Sased upon the bone teachings ofthe ted references, the sil fone a cxnary sil inthe
‘a and absent evdence tothe contrary, there woul have been a reasonable expectaton of succes to
‘esultn the camed invention.

‘According, the claimed iwerton was prima faci covous to one of erinary ski inthe att the
time the inventon was made, especialy inthe absence of evdence to the conta.

‘The teachings of ra are set forth above and apoled as before. Ira further teaches that Phoenix
Joursii and tat the stem or leat can be used as the starting material (See paragraph 0022).
Ira 08s not teach Phoenix dacytera.


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Pages
‘AetUnit: 1655

“Nursing mes" teaches thatthe form of administration ofa drug fs based upon the boavaabity
‘ofthe rug and most elective route of admintraton. “Nursing times" teaches that topical administration
‘san otctive form for ocaly administering medication

It would have been cbvous to mast the Phoenix spacis an the mathod by which the
ccompeston the composition is acministred because at thee ho invantion was mado, Iwas known
{hata compostton comprising an atharol or methanol extrac of Phoenix rupcoa andox Phoenix ious
loaves andr stoms can be usod to trea cabatos and sine hove are ery 13 species wih tho Phoenix
‘00u8 and it's wot know that Phoanbx dactyoca stom barks fective or woatng aabetas, would be
‘obvious o substtute Phoenix datyer asthe species of Phoenix and use ether the lea or stom and
to extract the leat a stom wih alcoho fr treating dlabetos since twas known that Phoenix upico,
‘outer and cactytra a al etecive species of Phoenx for treating betes as clearly taught by the
above references

‘Thus. an atisan of ecinary sil woud reasonably expect fat modyig he Phoenix species
sed nthe formulation and administering a composition comersing an ethanol ecract of Phoenix
dactyilora leat woud be more atfecve fr eating dlabetes and symptoms of clabetes by oly rlcaly
‘acminstring the macicaton to the dested ste, This reasonable expectaon of success would motvate
the artisan to use a compostion comprising ethanol exact of Phoenix dacytera lea to teat dabetes
‘and its symptoms by oaly or locally administering the farmulation based upon the Benelal teachings of
the above elarences

‘The reeultetactve adjustment ot paticul conventonal working conditions (eg, determining
the most fective way to administer medioaton to a person in need, determining @aale and eect
“amount of the medication and the numba of days needed fo ffecvely teat the conditon is deemed
moray a ator ofjudlsousselacton and routine optimization which Is well within purview of the

sisted artisan,


‘Applcaion/Contol Number: 14/622,782 Pages
‘AetUnit 1655

‘ased upon the beneficial teachings ofthe ted references, the si of one of ordinary si inthe
‘a and abeont evdonco tothe contrary, there would have been a aasonabe expactaton of succes 12
‘osultn th claimed invention.

‘Accordingly, the claimed iverson was pia faci Cbvious to one of ordinary ski in the arta the
‘ime the invention was made, especialy inthe absence of evidence to the contrary.

Response to Arguments

‘Appian’ arguments have been fuly considered but they are not persuasive.

‘Applicant argues that Muda teaches a formulation containing many ingredients that are used
{or treating diabetes and that there is no evidence thatthe paim leaf exacts effective in weating
dabotes. Applicant furmer argues that there is no evidence that administering palm leaf extract wi have
{he instantly claimed effects of reducing bood suoar, inhibit dabetc oxidative stress, abet
complications or the diseases of Gaim 8

However, his isnot found persuasive because Mudalar teaches that a compostion comprising @
ater extract of cocos nucifera lets effective at eating diabetes. Therefore, administering te
‘ormulaton of Mudalar and the exractofcocns nucifera leaf would be expected to etfectve teat
dabetes and is symptomsicondtions related o diabetes. Therefore, the rejections maintained forthe

‘reasons of record and the reasons set forth herein

‘Appicant agus thatthe invention isnot vious over Mudalain view of nursing times because
the reteences do not teach te intanty claimed iventon

However hi is not foun prsuasive because a composton comprising co0os nuotea leat
‘extacts known to be uso for treating dabetes and formulation Pat ioral int topical form is wal
known the at tobe etactve for admiistring a compost for ater abeorpton. There, the
‘0jecton fs maintained for he roasone o record ae forthe reasons 8 forth above.

Conetusion


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page?
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Appicant's amendmant necaestated the naw ground) of rejecsonprosentod inthis OMfco
‘ction, Accordingly, THIS ACTION IS MADE FINAL. Soe MPEP § 70607(a). Aplcant i amined of
the extension of ine poly as sot forth in 37 OFR 1.138.

| shortened statutory pore fr reply otis nal acon esa to expire THREE MONTHS rom
{he mang dato of hs action. Inthe event fist reply fed witin TWO MONTHS ofthe maling dato
ofthis ral acton and to advisory acon is nt maied unl after he end of he THREE: MONTH
shorted statutory parod, thn he sorta statutory prio wil exp onthe dat tho advisory action
‘male, and any extension foo pusuant to 37 CFR 1.136(a wibo calculated from the mating date of
tocthan SK

the advisory action. In.na event, Rowaver, wil the statutory period for reply exp
[MONTHS from the date of ts fina aoton.

‘Any inquiry concerning this communication or salir communications rom the examiner shoul
be doctod to Amy L. Clark whose telephone number i (671)272-1310. The examiner can noaly be
‘reached on Mnday to Feiday 7am to 330 pm.

it anampis to reach te examiner by telephone are unsuccessu. the examine’s superior,
“Terry McKelvey can be reached on(571)272.0775, The fax phone number forthe organization where
this application or pxooseding Is assigned is 571-278-850.

Information regarding the status ofan application may be cbained am the Patent Application
Information Retival (PAIR) system. Status information for published applications may be obtained from
‘ter Private PAIR or Pube PAIR. Stat information for unpublished applications is evalabe though
Private PAIR only. For moe information about the PAIR system, see htpipak-drec upto gov. Shouts
you have questions on acess tothe Private PAIR system, contact the Electronic Business Center (EBC)
{81866-217-0107 (oll-ton),H you would ko assistance kom a USPTO Customer Service Ropeosontatia
© ac2098 tothe automated information syste, cal 800-786-9109 (IN USA OR CANADA) 01 571-272
1000,


‘Applcation/Contol Number: 14/622,732 Page 8
‘AetUnit 1655

‘Any Llane
Primary Examiner, Art Unit 1655
