pete Uaes JT ON-IG
«EP 2503298,

1 A pharmaceutical and detary supplement compostion having sysergi-ant-
eapoeyte fatty acd-bnaing protein (902, antiS-Lipoxypenose Activating Protein
(FLAP) and ant.Cysteny\ Leuxctiene (Cys LT) -1 receptor actives comping an
ects amcunt of @ Bosweita serrata exrat or action selectively enriched in 3-0-
scaly -Keo-8-Dowwelic acid (AKBA) ond Alcala marmetos Bett etherot
‘exacts donved-om Aogie-mammeloe-for use in the protector trom-treatmant of
orders selected from ane cont otllammaley-tesoiatory dsordersootonaty
selectad-trom-asthma, allergic eins, nay fever, Iype-1 hypersensitivty and mid
serps, oF topical conditions, eeionaly-seleeted-Mrom-ecrema. and ptorisis-ond
water

2 A composiion for use accoing to cit 1, wherein the percentage of the
lerriched Boswelia estrac\s) or facton(s) obtained from Boswelia serrata in Be
compostion is in the range of 1-B8% and the percentage of the estrac(s) or
fractions) of Aaglo marmeles in the composition isin he range of S-08%,

3A composition for use azcoring to cain 1 oF calm 2, futher comprising an
\ttectve amount of extracts) oF fracton(s) or pure isolates) derived tom Zingber
oficrale ander Garema mangostans:

4A composition for use according to claim 3, wherein the percentage of the
lenrched Bosweta extrac(s) or fracton(s) obtained from Boswolla serrate in he
composition sn the range of 1.75%, the percentage ofthe extrat(s) or fracton(s)
of Aegle marmolos i the compostion i nthe range of 575%, the percentage of the
‘eiracts) of Znpber afcinae in the composition isn the range of 1: 50% ana he
percertage of extracts) of Garcine mangostanain the composition isin the range of
+505,

5. A composition for use according to any one of cms 1 to 4, futher comprising
‘one oF more pharmaceutical, detialy and nuvaceicaly acceptable adsives oF
exciparts


8. composition for use according lo ny one of aime 1 105, wherein the enriched
‘exvact ot racton of Boswelia serrata san extract standardized to 30% AKBA

7A composition for use according to any one of clams 1 to 6, wherein the 3-O-
acety-11-hto-P-boswelhc acid (AKBA) concentration in the eniched extracts or
‘enriches fractions of Boswelie serrate iyvenee-tiom 10% to 9BM,-oF fom 20%
60% or trom 25% t0 45%,

8 A composition for use according 19 any one of claims 1 10 7. provided tn
combnaton wih an eflecive amount of one oF more known antunfammatoy 0”
antvasthma or immune modulating herbal extracts of tactons

8. A composition for use according to any one of claims 1 to 8. provided in
combaation with an elective amount of one of more pharmaceutealy ar ettiaty

| scceptabie antioxidants: adaptopens, bonvalabity eshancers and trace metals
miures thereot

10. A compositon for use according to any one of claims 1 to 9, adacted for
somnstraton Brough ora, parenteral, nasal inhalaton, incuding nebulzers,
\wanscerm,ocitr and any ther sutable route

11, A composition for use according 10 any one of claims 1 t 10, wherein the
composition is inthe form of

| stable pharmaceutical and dietary supplemert dosage form for oral
|adminisation optionally selected trom taal, soft capsules. hard capsules
pits grandes, powcers, emulsons, suspensions, sprays, syrups and peles,

(9 sutabie chamaceutcal and dietary supplement dosage form for parenteral
orn aton. cotionally selected trom wyectons. drops and susposiones, oF

«a stable nutitonaietary supplement dosage form. optionally selected from
reais, baby foods. natty foods, or food for specfed health uses such as
sol f000 lke chocolate or nutitional ars, semisli food tke cream 0: jam,
‘Fel and also beverage and tho like, such as reeshing beverage, lcte acid


Dbactere beverage. crop. candy, chewing gum, chocolate, gummy candy,
yogrur. ce cream pudsing, SoM aczuki bean ely, ly, cookie and the tke

| 12 Ase cto-composition fo use according to any one of claims 11011, wherein @
therapeutically efecive amount of he composiion is acministered to humans or
anima in need thereol as a pharmaceuteal or ntraceutcal or dietary supplement
or anoteraing conditions rated to-asioocyte lay seceding elm (922)
nie 6-Liponygonase Activating rolain{ELAB} 0 CysteinytLeukatene Gye LT)
“+ recaptos expression oF aces

13 he-vse commas: for ua according olan 12, where the amount of the

| conpostion or sosage fom_anen dependent ugox Clan 11 administered to 8

| pumas or an matin need thew varaein he range of 00 0 $00 maka boxy
eign

|

the nhiiton ot aciposyle ltl aed acing praia {362} erosson.
