Unmep Stans Parr aNp TRADEMARK OFT

Gee ee | ETC OC
STawtey Rian
TLENADE LANE TR aT

AST BRUNSWICK, NJ 08816

Please find below and/or attached an Office communication concerning this application or proceeding.

The time period for reply, it any i st in the attached communicat

Notice of the Office communication was sent electronically on above-indicated. "Noti

following e-mail address(es)

spot ptentsgroup co



apres
Rioover a.
mun [ET
cots es [Se
= The MAILING DATE of this communication appears on the cover sheet with the correspondence address ~

Period or ply

[A SHORTENED STATUTORY PERIOD FOR REPLY IS SET TO EXPIRE aMONTH'S) OR THATY 20) OAYS,

‘hrncrevEn Loner, FROMTHE MAILING BRT= OF THs COMMUNGATIoN

(ese mernpes pe cue pad a oan coho aman mm MINDONED oe

Status
| 10B8_Resconsive to communiaton(s) led on £4.tuy 2019
|

Office Action Summary

A cectaration(syaticavits) under 37 CFR 1.130(0) wasiwore fied on
22)B) This action is FINAL 200 This action is non tna,
310 An election was made by the applicant in response fo a restriction requirement set forth during te intrvew on.
|__the resticton requirement and election have been incorporated inte this acton,
410 ‘Since ths appcaton is in conation fo alowance except fr formal matters, prosecution as tothe mers is
‘lose in aceoraance withthe practice unde: Ex parte Quayle, 1995 C.D. 11, 4530.6, 213,
Disposition of Claims
‘5180 Claims) 1-17i/are pending in he appicaton.
‘a) Ol te above elam(s) 16.and 17 sare witdrawn liom consideration.

81D Cais) __isiare alowed.
7a 6

oo ed 0.

0 Claims) are subject to restiction ancoreleeton requirement

* any clamshave been determines alowabia you maybe eligi to bene rom the Patent Prosecution Mighway poyam aa
partepatrgntetectal pope ofice fo the coespenng appicaton. For mae aormaon please se
nino ute aoatntnt eyectetvinda spo send an nq to PSecactusci.o0y

Application Papers
10}C] The specication is objected toby he Examiner.
11)C) The arawing(s) fled on __isare: a)C) acceptec or b)C] objected toby the Examine.

Zoplcant may ot request at any obecton wo te crawingls) be hedin abeyance. See 37 CFR 1 asa
Replacement crawng shee) incluing ie carection is equte the drawings) is bjetedto. Sew 7 CFR 1.1213.
Priotity under 35 U.S.C. § 119
12)C] Acknow adgmentis made ofa claim for foreign prioity under $5 US. § 119(8)() or ()
Centied copies:
aIDAt ®)C} Some e}C None of me:
121 Certled copies of te pricy documents have been receives.
201 Certiied copies of tre priorty cocuments nave boen received in Applicaton No. __.
311 Copies o ne ceri copies ofthe prionty documents have been received inthis National Stage
application tom the international Bureau (PCT Rule 17.2)
* See the atached dtaed Ofiew acon ora at ofthe cad copies ot eoeved

tachment
1 ce tetoncns an T0882 21 me Smay P19)

ncrnson ice Stren enon Oa —
2D ema aco Sumer (TOS) eel



‘Appicaton/Contro! Number: 131615 506 Page 2
‘An Uni 1655

DETAILED ACTION

‘Aceomledgment is made of tre rece and entry of the amendment fled on 07/14/2013 win the
amenoment of cam t

Election Restrictions

‘The elecnonvresteton requrerentis ma-tained fr the reasons of 1200

‘Any section found inthe previous Ofice Acton and not repeated heren has been withdrawn
‘based upon Applcant's amendments tthe cain ‘

The texto those sections of Tite 36, U.S. Code natincuded in ths acon can be found apie
Office acton.

‘The infomation csciosure statement lied 07/14/2013 fas to comply with he provisions of 37
(CFR 1.87, 1.88 and MPEP § 608 because he 10S ds not provide a date forthe reference. Ithas been
‘laced in me application te, but he information reterred fo therein nas not been considered as tothe
‘ents, Aeplcantis advise tate date of any re submission of any te of ntormation contained in ns
Information closure statement or the submission of any missing ements) wil be te date of
_svomission fr purposes of determining compliance withthe requicements based onthe ime of ing the
statement, cluding al certicaton requirements or statements under 37 CFR 1.97(8). See MPEP

$600.05,

[Claim Rejections - 95 USC § 103,
10, 19 and 14 remain ejected under 95 U.S.C. 103(a) as being unpatentabie
‘over Keishnamurty at al (U) .

Cains 1,36,



Applcaton'Contrl Number: 12/615,506 Pages
Art Unit: 1655

rishnamurty Yeaches @ composition consisting ot eaves of Waightatnctoria extracted in coconut

(of (which ead on a non-aqueous extract of Weight tnclota, since no war is used in th

mracton
‘and reads on an extract of Cocos nuotera, sine cooonut ol isan extract of Cocos nucle) for Weating

psorias

alopecia ang other skin conditions. Krishnamry further teaches that gngely ol (which is
‘synonymous with sesame oi) can also be used to extrac he Wrightianctora eaves. Krishnamurty does,

etre

agditonal ingrocionts
would have been obvious to modly the composton taught by Krshnamurty oy combining
eaves of Wrighta tnctvia exacted in coconut oi and gingely ci and io mod the amounts of each

ingrediont because atthe time the invention was mace, it was known that leaves of Wrighiatnctr

‘exacted in coconut oll and gngely ol usetulingredions for weating psoriass as clearly ‘aught by
Kistnamuty
‘Thus, an artisan of ordinary skil woud reasonably expect that moctyng the amount of leaves of

‘Wright voctora exacted in coconut ol and gingay oll and the amount of coconut and gingety ol wou

‘succoss would motivate the artisan to use leaves of Wight tinctovia extracted n coconut ol and ingely
6 ans to mosiy the amounts of each inresient to more ettectvely eat psoriasis bases upon the
‘bene! toacings of Kishnashury

Moreover would have been merely a mater of udcious selection to one of odie Skil inthe
‘arta the ime he invetion was made to mod he relerenced composition because it woud have been

olin tne purview of one of orcnary skint

pracicing the inventon to pick and choose amount of
leaves of Wright tinctra extracted in coconut ol and gingely i to make a mote etective and safer
formulation tor weating psoriasis. Thus, the claimed invention is no more than the outine optnizatan of
aesutettect variable.

‘Based upon the benefcia teachings ofthe cad reterences, te sil of one of ocinay kil inthe
art

7 absent evidence tothe contrary, there would have been a reasonable expectation of sucess 10

‘9suiin the claimed ivontion



‘Aoptcaton!Contol Number 1.1615, 508 Pages
‘At Unit: 1656

time ta invention was made, espacaly in he absence of evidence to the consary.

(eine tle eraseleted enter a6 tu SIRPTOOTEEONG wipatonatie GTR ehraumusty oo
(U9 eo Abu Aon na (). Maieu(), Monabece (ana Marc a 0.

Kesnnamuny aches a composition consiing of faves of Wighia inci exbactes cacont
‘caren reads on a non-aqueous enact of Wight Nactara, Sce no water is Used the exacton
‘nd oud on an extract of Cocos nueva, since coco ol san extract of Co00s notre for teaing
paorasis, lopeca and oer sn condtors. Krsteamuty futher eacras Mat @ngey oF (nen
syronymous wih sesame of) can 80 bo used lo exract the Wightia Urctone eaves Krshramary does
notrequre aaatona! ngrecients

‘Matru teaches thal coconut copra processed int ol (which reads on “an extrac of coc08

cera tats widely usain shin are ha ave and a remarkable skin ar ha careprockt and is a
conan mgredentin mossuraing sin tons

‘Motanedeh eaches a topical composition for teaing psoriasis comriing ay’ sucha in an
amount ot 1
00s ona surace active agent arc fats win the range daied by Alcan), surtactant, where the
‘sutactant can be cocamce DEA or 6 hye $0y protein an amount ot 02% (pease note tat

3, wheren said tury stat can be either sodium or ammonium lauryl sutate (which

‘cocamige DEA isa foam booster and can read ona fou booster and fle within the range of foam
‘booster instantly aimed), sodium or ammonia aurath sual in an amount of 0.1-0.5 (which roads on
‘a stable’ and reads on the range claimed by Applicant). ethyione glyco! dstearate In an amount ot 0.1
‘0.8% (which reads on viscosity enhancer and reads on the range claimed by Appear) and tho
‘remainder purtad wate (which reads onthe amount caimed by Applicant, and wherein te composton
‘car be formulated into a shampoo, aliquid soap on ointment


‘Applcaton!Control Number: 131615 506 Pages
‘At Unit: 1855

Mariot eaches an ointment base formulaton comprising beeswax, soft and hard paratin and
cetosteary alcoho

‘would have been obvious to madly the compositon used in he method taught by Kishamusty
by combining eaves of Wrghtia inctora exacted in coconut ol ae gingly oi with an exact of fut
‘and oot of Mola azedaraen ard coconut copa ol ado format the combination 0! ngredin into an
‘tment, 5099 or shampoo comprising the instant ingredients ofeach formulation because atthe time
{he eertion was made, twas known at lavas of Wight tetova exacted in coconut of, gngely ot,
‘an exact of it and root of Mei azedarach and coconut copra ol were useful ingredients for treating
‘psoras's and oor skin conditions andthe ngrcint for lormulating skin car cahpostons i he orm
‘fa soap, shampoo and oiniment wore wel krown inthe at as clearly aught bythe above reterences

itis wel known that itis prima facie obvious to combine wo or mor ingredients each of which is
taught by he por art tobe use forthe same purpose in ordr to form atid composition which is
sell forte same purpose. The idea for combining them tows loplcaly fom thelr having been used
Indivavaty in he pri at. Based onthe dscosureby these references hat eaves of Wrghta tetova

‘exvacted in coconut ol and gngely ol, an exact of ult and root of Moa azedarach and coconut copra

6 ae usetl ingredients for veang psorass and other skin conaitors, the atsan woud have been
‘motivated 0 combine the cai ingredients into a single composition. No patentable invention resides
in combiring od ingrecionts of known properties whore the results obtained thereby are no more than the
cc eect ofthe ingredients. See MPEP section 214406, Ince Kerkhoven, 626 F 23 848,850,205
{USO 1069, 1072 (CGPA 1960), Ex pate Guadrant, 25 USPO24 1071 (Bd. Pat. App. & Ine. 1982)
‘Thus, an artisan of orinary kil would reesonably expect hat combining leaves of Wright
tnctoria extracted in coconut ol an gingely ol wt an extract ot and roo of Mela azedarach and
‘coconut copra ol would prove an even more elective compositon fer treating psccasis and other skin

Cconations. Ths reasonable expectation of success would motivate th

isan to use leaves of Wrighta.
tincioria extracted in coconut ol and gingely ol, an extract of frit androot of Melia azedarach and
‘coconut copra ol ina topical composition fer psoriass and other skin conlons and one of onary kil

in tre at would expect that formulating a compostion comprising leaves of Wright tinctoia extracted in


‘Applicaton/Control Number: 131615.508
Arto: 1655

coconut o and gngel olan extract of ut and root of Ma azedarach and coconut copra onto an
‘tment soap or shampoo comering the instar ingredients of each formation woul have been
‘etecive for eating psoriasis another skin condone because athe ime he nventon was mas, ¢
‘was hnown that leaves of Wighéatnctoria exacted in coconut ol and angel ol
{oot Mata azecarach and coconut copra ol wee ust ngedionts or Yeatig psoriasis and ther skin
‘conddens that could be formated into ctments, shamaao and iqud Soap andthe ngrosints for
toxmsanng see care compositions inthe form o Soap, shampoo and arte were wel known nthe
a.as cary aught byte above references

1 exact of rut and

‘Moreover, it woud nave been merely a mater of judicious selection to one rdnay skin the
{atime te the kvenion was mace to modty ine eterenced conposton because wout have been
wotin te puew o on of onary sin the art practicing the invention to pck and choose amurtsof
the various ingredients to make a more etfecwe an sate ormuaton for veating psoriasis and oer
‘tin contons. Thus he claimed ewenton sno more than he routine optim.zaton of a resut eect
variate

{sed upon the Benet tachings of he cxad ferences, he aka one a oxénary akin te
far. and absent evidence tothe contrary, thre would have been a reasorabie expectation of success 0
resuttin the claimed invention

‘According th caimed invention was rma face cbvious to one of erinary sil ne art at he
tere the nventon was made, especialy in te absence 2! evidence tothe corrary

Response to Arguments
‘Appleants arguments led 07/14/2013 nave been fuly considered but thay are not persuasve

Claim Rejections - 38 USC § 108
‘Asplcant's arguments wih regards othe 103) as being unpatntabe ver Kishramury ea
‘Apoleant arquoe tat Kishnamury aches Whighta Tinctosa win a coconut oor a goer ol

{s0same a baso, which s somewhat arent an ha commercalyavalanie Vota >! desorbed


‘Agphcaton’Controt Number: 139818.506 Page 7
‘ArtUnit: 1685,

‘her relerences and that Kshnamury does net isioxe he concentration of Wrghta Tincona in hi of
‘Asocant lrtner argues that he principal reabwent or psoriass patents inthe study comprised orl
‘cministration of he ol (even thovgh it was aso apped erternaly onthe allected areas), but tha the
‘eterence does not éstngush between the etlects of orl and topical administration and H must be
‘assumed tat orl administration ofthe ol contributed signticanty tothe rate of cue. Applicant turner
‘argues mat etecove ral ormuations do not obviously vansiate to etectve topical formations,
‘Acolcant fuer argues that Krishnamutys observation is questionable, since the data provided is only
‘visual, bt. d00s not inccate regression of he disease and hat Krishnamury' disclogure i not enabled
18s prorat or ts purpose. Acpicant fuer argues tha the iveriors used significant less Wrightia
Thactoria han deserted in prorat iterate and here is no ora administration of the formulation
‘Acpicant futher argues that the formulation was acmnistred ony fopcaly. Applicant further argues that
ror a dons not dctoge that topical admiration of n'y 5% by weight of Wagta Tetoriain a
cocons of base would have as significant a benelical eect on patents (as daclosed in the example
tials in the Specticaton o the Present Application,

However, the isnot une persuasve Dacause Krvnamusty teaches # composition consaing of
‘Wrgha Tinctona wih a coconut oi oa gingerly ol (sesame oi base and aches thal the composition
| ust for eating psonasis. Krshnamury further teaches tat te composition can be administered
‘ether oly or opicady. Please note tht oral formulations can also be topcaly acminstrod as they are
Considered sale for topical administration they are sate fr oral consumption. Regardless, Krshnamuy
lary teaches that the composion can be topically administered forthe same purpose as that claimed
bby Aspicant treatment of psoriasis. With regards tothe mechanism of action, the mechanism would be
Innerentinrinsic tothe compostion aught by Krshnamurty, since the ngredants taught by Krisnnamurty
‘88 one andthe same as that Galmed by Appicant, With gard tho amount of me Wrighta
Tato, sce the composition was known tobe useli forthe same purpose claimed by Applicant
would have boen obvious to mosiy the amount of WrightiaTinctoia to provide an even more aaa
‘composton for eating psoiass.Thereloe, the ejection is maintainod fr tho reasons of ror.


‘Applicalen/Contro! Number: 131615.508 Page 8
‘AntUne: 1655,

‘Anchcants arguments wih regards 0 Kistoauiry. vw of Ab AX bn Sina, Mati,
Moaeden ad Mart ot a

‘Aepicant arques tat Motahedeh eaches a pial appcaton ot a "herapeutc composton'1o
teat psovass, and mat Monaneden teaches afermulaton that's erbrly Beret rom the claimed
‘wanton and, tus, Motahedeh cant be combined wih any ofthe oer rlarences io produce the
lwenton of cae 1. Aspicant urer args hat Abu AX bn Sna teaches a formulation comprising
‘meta azedarach or treating ching, sone tewshruigo, inte, sleott, lalgla, ard estan. The
‘examiner concuses tat merely because these areal skin consis, he concept of using hs ingreciont
wouks be efecive agains! psoas. Applicant futher argues thatthe kn contons rated by Abu Al
‘on Sea rave ctor causatons and wou requre diferent weatment han psorasis. Appcanttwther
‘seus rat Motaneden does not propose the contration of ngrediens of cam 2. Applicant turher
‘qs nat Matriow 60s not each tha: coco chopra ois use for weatingpsoias, Applicant
Aurborarquns that Marit aches he use of hard parain, qu paratin,
patio ontment ceosteary soho! and wnte beeswax inthe present formulation fr te same
Purposes oted by Marit, but hat Mart oes nt tach the instant eamed actve ingredients and
thatthe combination of he retrences would not render the iverson bvious. Please nate that t
‘sopears Aoslicants arguments wih epards © Kishnaumurty ae presumed o be the same or he above
109 rejection.

In response to Applicants aigumerts, Motahedeh eaches the adatonal instant canes
Ingredients in a shampoo formation or weatng psoriasis woul have been obvious to combine he
{oxmulaton for renting pao a taught by Krisnnaumrty wth he shampoo formulation aught by
Moraheaan because both tachins

raw to formulations fr reting psoriasis anther
combinaton would be expected to provid an aver mare eecive composi or Yeang psriasls.
‘Wi regs othe Abu Alb Sina ofrenc, Krshraumury teaches tha the compostion comprising
‘Wrghtatntoria loaves extracted in coconut andor gigolo uss for eating not ony Bsoriasts
but ober akin condtons. Since Abu Al fb Sina teaches that he action ingredient, Mela azedarach
‘rut a oaves, arousal or treating skin condition, t would have been obvious to combine he


‘Agplcaton/Gontrol Number: 121618.506 Pages
At Unit: 1655

Ingreconts provide an even more elective composition for reatng skin contons (please note that
the clams are presentycrawn to compositon hat reuse fr keatng skin dsorcors cla to
oii, and does nt ony require hat the composton treat psoriasis. ching sa isco elated to
aos, as re the dsordersesctosed by Abu Abn Sing; herefore, combining the ngreions of
Kishoamuaty with Abu Aiba Sina to rteve symptoms and dso elated to psoas woud have

been covious for h

207s st foth above andin the previous Otic Acton With regards to the
teachings of Mathieu, would have been obvious toad an aditonal skin care ingredient to the
formulation of Krishnamurthy, since itis effectve at eating skin conditons anc is widely used in
therapeutic skinlotons. In response to Applicants arguments regarding Marrott he ingredients taught
bby Martt are usetl or the same purpose as that aioe by Applicant. Thorlo, the combination of
Ingredients woud be expected tobe even more elective for eating skin codons based upon the
beneficial teachings of the above rterences, Thereore, he rejections are maintained forthe reasons of

Conclusion

No claims are allowed.

‘THIS ACTION IS MADE FINAL. Appicantisrominded ofthe extonion of time pay asset oth
In 97 CFR 1.10618)

[A shortened sattory period for reply to this i
the maling ate of his action. In th

3 action Is Sotto expire THREE MONTHS from

fonts reply is fled within TWO MONTHS othe malin d

‘of nis nal ation and the advisory action isnot mala unt ater the end of the THREE-MONTH
shortened statutory period, then the shortened statutory pero wil expire on tho Cato the acisory ation
's males, and any extension fee pursuant o 37 CFR 1.196) wif be calculated rom the mang date of
‘the advsory action, In no event. however, il the sattory period for opy expe lator than SiK

MONTHS trom the mang date ofthis fina ation.


‘Appleaton/Contro! Number: 13/615,508
An Unt 1655

‘Any inquiry concerning this communication or earier communications from the examiner should

‘be rected to Amy L. Clark whose telopnone number is (571}272-1310. The exami

can normaly be
reached on Monday to Fay 7am to 3:30 pm.

attempts to reach the examiner by telephone are unsuccessu, the examiner's supers,
Tony MeKelvey canbe ached on(571)272.0775, The ex phone rumber forthe oxganzaton where
ths appeation oF proceeding assigned is 871-278-8900

Intrmation regarding hs

ats olan apptcaton maybe obtained tom the Patent Apptcaton
Informaton Rotieval (PAI) system, Staus information fr pushed epplcations may be obtaed trom
ther Private PAIR or Puc PAIR. Stats information for unpublished appcaton is avaabe rough
Pvae PAI ony. For more Information about the PAIR sytem, See Ntp/pa-divect spt. gov. Should
ya have questions on access othe Private PAIR system, contact he Electronic Business Center (EBC)

11 866-217-9197 (ol00). you would tke assistance from a USPTO Customer Sorvice Representative

(access othe avimaed infor
1000,

in Syst, Cll 800-786-0199 (IN USA OR CANADA) or 571-272

amy Cl
Primary Examines, At Unit 1685
